DUNGEON CRAWLER CARLBOOK IV 


THE GATE OF THE FERAL GODS 


OceanofPDF.com 


DUNGEON CRAWLER CARL BOOK IV 


OceanofPDE:.com 


MATT DINNIMAN 


OceanofPDE:.com 


DANDY HOUSE 


OceanofPDE:.com 


Copyright © 2021 by Matt Dinniman 
All rights reserved. 


No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, 
including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, 
except for the use of brief quotations in a book review. Permission will be granted in exchange for 
tasteful feet pics or not-so-tasteful boob shots. 


COVER ILLUSTRATION BY Luciano Fleitas 
https://www.artstation.com/lucianofleitas 
COVER AND INTERIOR DESIGN By Toby Dinniman 


https://www.collageorama.com 


OceanofPDF:.com 


Thanks so much to everybody who has helped make this series something 
really special, including all my friends over on Patreon and Royal Road. 
Also, extra special thanks to the person who messaged me a random picture 
of her (?) foot with no message or explanation. I’ve forwarded them off to 
the AI for you. 


OceanofPDF.com 


Capital punishment means those without the capital get the 
punishment. 


- EXECUTED PRISONER, JOHN A. SPENKELINK 


OceanofPDE:com 


Chapter 1 

Chapter 2 

Chapter 3 

Chapter 4 

Chapter 5 

Chapter 6 

Chapter 7 

Chapter 8 

Chapter 9 

Chapter 10 
Chapter 11 
Chapter 12 
Chapter 13 
Chapter 14 
Chapter 15 
Chapter 16 
Chapter 17 
Chapter 18 
Chapter 19 
Chapter 20 
Chapter 21 
Chapter 22 
Chapter 23 
Chapter 24 
Chapter 25 
Chapter 26 
Chapter 27 
Chapter 28 
Chapter 29 
Chapter 30 
Chapter 31 
Chapter 32 
Chapter 33 
Chapter 34 
Epilogue 


Woohoo! 


CONTENTS 


About the Author 

Mailing List! Patreon! 

Also by Matt Dinniman 

The page where we tout Facebook groups so they let us spam them about this book 


OceanofPDF:com 


BUBBLE 543 OF 1172) 
DESERT BUBBLE 


STARTING LOCATION 
("THE BOWL! 


waewe ewww ee eee 


BUBBLE IS 


rors, 1S KAA 


WIDE 
_ SIDE VIEW 


. EACH BUBBLE CONTAINS FOUR QUADRANTS: LAND, SEA, AIR, TOMB. 

EACH QUADRANI CONIAINS ONE CASILE, WHICH CONTAINS A STAIRWELL, 
-ONE MAY NOT LEAVE THEIR STARTING GLADRANT UNTIL THE CASTLE IS TAKEN. 
*STAIRWELLS DO NOT OPEN UNTIL ALL FOUR CASTLES HAVE FALLEN. 

YOU MAY LEAVE THE BUBELE ONCE IT “POPS" LE, ALL FOUR CASTLES FAL. 

+ YOU MAY NOT ENTER OTHER BUBBLES UNT'L THEY ARE POPPED. 


TOP VIEW 


OceanofPDF.com 


PHASE ONE OF FOUR. THE GNOMES. 
Time to Level Collapse: 15 Days. 


Views: 1.43 Quintillion 
Followers: 7 Quadrillion 
Favorites: 2.4 Quadrillion 


Leaderboard rank: 3 
Bounty: 800,000 gold 


WELCOME, CRAWLER, TO THE FIFTH FLOOR. “THE BUBBLES.” 
Sponsorship bidding initiated on Crawler #4,122. Bidding ends in 
45 hours. 


Remaining Crawlers: 178,887 


Entering Bubble #543 out of 1172. Air Quadrant. 


New Achievement! The Quarry Sees Another Spring. 

You managed to enter a stairwell while listed in the current top 10. 
You’re a survivor. A scrapper. And just as the buck’s antlers grow 
another point as they mature, you too, have grown as both a crawler 
and as a prize. 

Reward: You have received a Gold Venison Box! Don’t get too 
excited. It’s just money. In addition, all bounties against you now and 
in the future will have a (x2) modifier attached. 

Hey, at least the prize for surviving the floor goes up, too. 

“What the shit?” I said, seeing the notification. Nobody had warned me 
our bounties would double. Mordecai hadn’t mentioned it, nor had I seen it 
listed in the cookbook. I wondered if that was a new thing. Those fuckers. 

I coughed, regretting I’d said anything out loud. I spit the sand from my 
mouth. 

Tens of thousands of crawlers hadn’t made it past the last few hours of 
the fourth floor. I felt my fist clench and unclench as we trudged forward, 
leaning into the wind. 

Donut mewled with irritation from my shoulder. Hot wind blasted 
against us, and every time I breathed, my mouth and nose started to fill with 
sand. We needed masks. We could only talk using chat. 

We'd stepped from the warehouse onto the fifth floor just a few minutes 
after the fourth level collapsed. I felt the standard rumble in the ground 
while we were still in the warehouse, but it was much more distant than 
usual. 

Donut: I NEED TO PICK A NEW CLASS! I REALLY WISH 
THEY GAVE ME MORE TIME. THE CHOICES ARE ALL 
DIFFERENT. 

Carl: Mordecai. Help Donut choose. We’re in an air zone. 

Mordecai: There you are. By the gods, did Odette make you clean 
her house first before she let you go? I’m already here and have been 
gathering intel. Come to the town that’s hunched up against the 
northwest curve. The walls block the sand storms. Locals say the 
storms only last an hour or two each day. Apparently there’s only two 
towns in the area. Donut, read me your choices. 


Donut quickly read off some of the class choices. None of them had a 
flying ability. Many sounded more interesting and exotic than usual, like 
Nine Tails and Demigod Attendant, though there were a few in there that 
had to be a joke. Like Vape Shop Counter Jockey. Mordecai asked rapid- 
fire questions. He zoomed in on two choices. 

Mordecai: The class choices keep getting better. We still need to 
keep your Constitution up. You just lost ten points from losing your 
Football Hooligan. There’s one that’ll replace it and more. Glass 
Cannon normally forbids you from adding to your constitution upon 
level-up, but it comes with a plus fifteen constitution base, and it’ll also 
greatly increase your training speed on all spells. It does not increase 
your intelligence, but it lowers the cost of all spells, which is almost the 
same thing. Your Magic Missile will be much stronger, and it’s already 
pretty strong. You can’t train constitution anyway, so it’s a good choice, 
especially if we grind on your magic. But if you don’t actually obtain 
some of those benefits, it could be a waste of a class. 

Donut’s Character Actor benefit went up in power each time she 
descended a floor, but it still came with a risk. She didn’t always obtain all 
of the chosen class’s benefits, and once she picked, it was set for the floor. 

Donut: I CHOSE IT! 

Mordecai: Well? What did you get? 

Donut: I... WELL, I GOT EVERYTHING. EXCEPT THE PLUS 
15 TO CONSTITUTION. 

“Goddamnit,” I muttered and immediately regretted it. I had to spit out 
more sand. 

Mordecai: Okay. We need to really focus on keeping Donut out of 
harm’s way until we get her better armor. No more riding Mongo into 
battle. 

Class choice out of the way, we started to move. Dust and sand swirled 
around us. The ground felt solid, though my feet sank to the ankles with 
each step. With the dust storm, I could barely see more than twenty feet in 
each direction. I looked up, and I saw nothing but brown. I turned, and the 
door we’d just left was gone, replaced by a curved, rocky but uniform wall. 
It seemed to rise high and away, like we were standing inside of a crudely- 
sculpted bowl. 

Katia: Okay. I see the edge of town. It’s close, about three hundred 
meters ahead and to the left. My pathfinder skill is acting a little odd. I 


can’t see anything behind us except the mountain wall. 

Donut: THERE ARE NO TUNNELS AT LEAST. I HATE 
TUNNELS. 

I wasn’t so sure about that. My chat was filled with people checking in 
with their surroundings. I minimized it until we were someplace safe, but I 
saw a few people mentioning tight, claustrophobic tunnels. Bautista was in 
one such passageway. Elle and Imani said they were on a round, floating 
island that was really a bunch of boats lashed together. They were being 
pelted with a hailstorm and had taken shelter in the hold of a cargo ship that 
was filled with level-29 fish monsters. 

Carl: I can’t see shit. Watch out for mobs. 

Donut: THIS IS RUINING MY FUR. AND IT’S HOT. I DON’T 
LIKE THIS, CARL. MONGO IS MISERABLE. 

Carl: Mongo is still in his container. You don’t know if he’s 
miserable or not. 

It was hot. It felt like a hairdryer blasting on us. I remembered how cold 
it was when we’d first entered the dungeon. My eyes caught a countdown 
timer in my upper left vision. It was my potion sickness indicator from 
when Id taken Mordecai’s Special Brew. I still had over four hours until Pd 
be able to take another potion. At least the timer had kept ticking while we 
were on Odette’s show. 

Carl: Donut. Minefield. 

Donut unleashed Mongo, who squawked with dismay at the driving 
sandstorm. She cast Clockwork Triplicate on the pet, and she ordered the 
two automatons to range ahead of us. With our limited vision, they’d 
provide an early warning for both mobs and sand dunes. 

The town was close, but getting there was a chore. We didn’t see any 
mobs. We passed a cave-like entrance in the ground that offered shelter, but 
the clockwork Mongos were unable to enter despite it being wide-open. It 
was a short, sloped descent filled with swirling eddies of sand. In the hole I 
could see a tunnel fading away into darkness. I took a few steps down the 
slope, and I saw the shimmering wall. It was not a portal, but a forcefield of 
some sort, similar to the wall of my Protective Shield spell, protecting the 
entrance to the cave. The sand passed right through. A clockwork Mongo 
walked up and swiped at it, claw bouncing off it like it was a physical wall. 
The creature didn’t explode or blow back. I formed my gauntlet and 
hesitantly reached out to tap it. 


Warning: You may not enter this quadrant until your current 
quadrant’s castle is liberated. 

I tried to shout what I’d learned at Donut and Katia, but the wind was 
just too loud. We had to stick with chat. 

Carl: This is a cave entrance to the subterranean zone. It sounds 
like we can’t leave the air zone until we deal with the gnomes. 

Katia: The map won’t let me see anything inside there. But look at 
the walls. I thought this was a mountain, but it all looks carved. I think 
there’s a building under our feet. 

I took a banger sphere and rolled it down the slope. It bounced a few 
times down the uneven ramp, entered the area as if the wall wasn’t there, 
and just kept going. It disappeared into the darkness. 

A moment later, the ground rumbled with a distant explosion. I didn’t 
hear it, but I felt it in my feet. 

You have set off a trap. Maybe next time you’ll be more careful. 

Carl: Shit, it sounds like the subterranean tunnels have traps in 
them. We need to be extra vigilant. 

Katia: I believe it’s an underground tomb. Like Indiana Jones stuff. 

She pulled a regular torch from her inventory, lit it, and tossed it 
through the forcefield. It lit up a long, sloping hallway made of carved 
bricks. 

Carl: I think you’re right. 

Relief patterns of what looked like a flaming, screaming pterodactyl 
adomed the walls. Well that’s ominous. 

Donut: CAN WE DISCUSS THIS AFTER WE GET OUT OF 
THIS SAND? I MEAN, REALLY. WE CAN’T EVEN GO IN THERE. 
THAT’S NOT OUR AREA. THIS IS JUST AWFUL. SOME PEOPLE 
ON THE CHAT SAY THEY’RE IN A TROPICAL PARADISE AND 
SOME SAY THEY’RE IN A SNOWING ZONE. ANY OF THOSE 
WOULD BE BETTER THAN THIS, AND I DON’T EVEN LIKE 
SNOW. 

We abandoned the cave entrance and continued on toward the town. The 
fact we hadn’t seen any mobs was concerning. Less mobs usually meant 
stronger mobs. 

We did see one oddity as we trekked to the town. There was a twisted, 
burned-out shell of metal on the ground. It appeared it’d been there for 
some time. I couldn’t determine what it used to be, but it might’ve once 


been a vehicle. The system didn’t label it at all. I touched the metal to see if 
I could take it into my inventory. It felt solid and light, but rusted. It was 
half-buried in the sand. We left it and continued on our way. 

We soon came to a tall, curved wall made of sheets of metal riveted 
together. The walls rose high, maybe twenty feet, and a fabric awning 
covered it above that. The thick, blue and white striped material whipped 
violently in the storm, threatening to rip away at any moment. The fabric 
curved up and away into the darkness. Every few dozen feet, large, dark 
boxes stood atop the walls. They appeared to be lookout towers. They were 
closed up against the storm. 

Katia: The town is built against the wall. There’s an entrance that 
way. 

She pointed right, and we followed along the patchwork metal until we 
reached an arched doorway built into an alcove that was mostly protected 
from the wind. Donut started hacking up sand onto my shoulder. There was 
a crude sign over the large, double doorway. It read “Hump Town. Bang 
twice to enter.” 

The knocker was a mallet, like for a giant drum. It hung from a chain by 
the entrance. I grabbed it and smacked it against the door twice. The whole 
doorway echoed loud and deep. 

“That was louder than I expected,” I said. We could finally talk here, 
though we still had to raise our voices. 

Donut continued to hack in my ear. 

“Hey, don’t puke on my shoulder.” 

“Where else am I going to do it, Carl?” she said between breaths. She 
proceeded to puke on my shoulder. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. 

“In ancient Egypt, it was considered an honor for a cat to vomit upon 
you. You should thank me.” 

“Hump Town,” Katia said drily. “I can’t wait to find what that’s all 
about.” 

Several minutes passed, and nothing happened. The clockwork Mongos 
timed-out and collapsed. I was about to bitch at Mordecai to come open the 
door when it groaned, opening inwardly. 

“Tt’s a big NPC,” Donut warned just as the creature appeared. 

The tall creature looked down on us while we looked up at him. It was a 
camel. A giant camel wearing a headscarf and robes. The thing walked on 


two legs and had long arms with two fingers and a thumb. The tan creature 
had to be eight feet tall. His giant hump looked odd when he stood straight, 
like an overstuffed, low-slung backpack covered with robes. 

Clay — Dromedarian. Level 30. 

The Dromedarians are a common, formerly nomadic race that is 
found throughout the drier parts of the universe. With the ability to 
store mass amounts of liquid in their bodies, it is said a Dromedarian 
can survive up to two months without taking a single sip of water. 
When these hunters and warriors are placed in a situation where they 
can no longer wander, they tend to become lethargic, sloth-minded 
creatures. But make no mistake, this is a mighty race of warriors who 
were once known for their abject brutality. 

Trapped atop the Necropolis of Anser, these local Dromedarians are 
locked in a three-way stalemate with the Bactrians and the Dirigible 
Gnomes. Any day now this smoldering conflict could boil over into an 
all-out war. A war they probably would not survive. In the meantime, 
they’re perfectly content to sit around, smoke weed, and do their best 
to drink all their problems away. 

“Hump town,” Katia said, looking up at the camel. “That’s what they 
mean.” 

“Yo,” Clay the camel said. “Welcome to Hump Town. Don’t just stand 
there. Get in so I can close the door.” 

I just stared, blinking at the creature. Based on the way he was dressed 
and the description, I was expecting a stereotypical middle-eastern type 
accent. This was more like a gruff, biker dude. Like Joe Camel, I thought. 
The old cigarette mascot. 

“You don’t worship Grull, do you?” I asked as we stepped in. The wind 
howled around the village, and sand still rained in a dozen little spots here 
and there. The ground was covered with it. But it was nothing like out there. 

“Do I look like a face-painting, bull-worshipping bitch?” Clay asked. 

“Uh, no,” I said. 

“You lot got here just in time. Storm’s almost over. It’s dangerous to be 
out there when it stops blowing.” He slammed the heavy door closed. He 
carried a long, dangerous-looking spear over his shoulder. But he also 
carried a long tube that looked like a homemade bazooka or mortar. Sure 
enough, five, pineapple-shaped explosives dangled on a string from his 
back. My UI tagged each one as a Guided, Anti-Air Rocket. They were 


unarmed, so relatively stable. If they were “guided” then it had be magical, 
as they appeared to be pretty simplistic. It wouldn’t let me examine them 
further. 

“So the beasts hide when the wind is blowing?” I asked after Clay 
caught me staring at his gear. 

Clay grunted, a loud, wet sound that sprayed snot everywhere. “You 
must be new. You’re lucky you ain’t dead.” 

“There’s a Desperado Club,” Katia said. “No Club Vanquisher. I see 
several stores and inns.” 

“Not so fast,” Clay said as I took another step. “You can’t just enter 
Hump Town empty-handed. You gotta pay the toll. And if you’re the Club 
Vanquisher type, you are in the wrong place. They don’t call it Hump Town 
for nothing.” 

“What’s the toll?” I asked. 

“Gold, drugs, or pleasure.” He looked me up and down. He snorted 
again, spraying more snot. “Gold or drugs for you.” 

It was the dungeon version of the old bumper sticker, “Cash, grass, or 
ass. Nobody rides for free.” I chuckled. 

“How much gold?” 

“How much you got?” 

Donut, sensing a deal to be made, straightened on my shoulder. Sand 
cascaded off of her. I held up a hand to stop her. 

“How about this?” I asked, pulling a single blitz stick from my 
inventory. It’d gotten a couple of these from Quint the Desperado Club 
pharmacist. 

Clay pulled it from my hand and squinted, examining it. He 
immediately popped it into his mouth and lit it. 

“Good shit. Welcome to Hump Town. Stay out of city hall. 
Dromedarians only. Other than that, have fun. If you’re into weird shit, 
Weird Shit Alley is up against the far wall on the northeast side of town. 
Otherwise, the regular girls are mostly on Hump Street. I recommend 
Jazmin Delight over at the Wiggle Room.” 

“Wait,” Katia said. “So the town is called Hump Town because...” 

“Yeah, we’re a brothel town. What did you think? Now get out of here. 
And again, stay out of city hall.” 

New Quest. “Stay out of city hall.” 

Find out what’s in city hall. It just might be important. 


Reward: You will receive a Silver Quest Box. 

“Well that’s, I don’t know. A little obvious,” I muttered as the camel 
wandered away, smoking his blitz stick. He stopped and talked to another 
camel, pointing at us. They both laughed. 

“Do you think the prostitutes are more camels?” Donut asked. “Because 
that’s just weird.” 

“Not as weird as an entire, prostitution-based economy when there’s 
only two towns. It’s like the Iron Tangle all over again. It doesn’t make any 
sense.” Clay proudly showed his blitz stick to another camel, who also 
laughed. I was starting to realize what had just happened. We’d gotten 
scammed. I grunted. You asshole. Well-played. 

“Let’s find Mordecai.” 

The town’s streets were laid out like a set of nested semi-circles, like a 
rainbow. The residences dotted the outer ring, just inside the wall, 
interspersed with barracks-like buildings. The second ring consisted of 
shops and a handful of training guilds with the large City Hall building in 
the center. It was the largest building in town, rising up to the top of the 
fabric awnings, which all ran from the top of the building to both the town 
wall and the tomb wall behind it, like an umbrella. Each individual awning 
piece was triangular, like a jib on a sailboat, but much, much bigger. 

The town was larger than I expected. Larger than the medium skyfowl 
town I “owned” from the third floor. The inns and Desperado Club were all 
on the third ring, the aptly labeled “Hump Street.” 

As we made our way, the wind abruptly stopped. And just like that, 
dirty light streamed in from the spaces between the fabric awnings. Shouts 
rose around town, and suddenly camels were everywhere. A group 
appeared, pulling ladders and climbing the walls, unhooking the fabric. We 
had to step out of the way as a group of tall camels strode by on steampunk- 
like, metal and spring stilts. We watched as they rolled the fabric up. In 
minutes, the massive sails were pulled up and placed atop the city hall. I 
caught the shimmer of enchantment in the fabric. A group of camels 
expertly twisted the sails atop of the tower. The blue and white stripes 
formed a pattern, making something between a minaret, the onion towers 
atop Saint Basil’s cathedral, and soft serve ice cream. Only it was all made 
of fabric. Fabric they could quickly unfurl and re-deploy the moment 
another storm arrived. 


“That’s pretty nifty,” I said, amazed at how quickly they’d taken it all 
down. 

“Amazing,” Katia agreed. 

I stared up into the sky, agape. On the third floor there’d been a fake 
ceiling with an illusory sky. There’d really been ceiling up there, one I 
could easily hit with my slingshot. 

Now, I could see the distant shimmer of what appeared to be a 
forcefield, but it was high, high in the air. Airplane height. I turned in a 
circle. The city ended at a massive wall that had to be over a hundred feet 
tall. Before, I had thought we were in a giant bowl. I realized now that I was 
correct. A bowl that sat atop a tomb. What had the description called it? 
The Necropolis of Anser. 

“Carl, this doesn’t feel very dungeon-like to me,” Donut said, looking 
up at the sky. 

I laughed. “You said you didn’t like tunnels. There’s a top. It’s just 
really, really high up there. Remember what it said when we first came in? 
It called this place bubble number 543.” 

Katia was also turning in circles, looking into the air. “We’re under a 
dome,” she agreed. “Look at the way the light shines. It’s gotta be four or 
five kilometers to the top.” 

Something flew by high above. It was a giant bird of some sort. It dove 
out of view past the edge of the bowl. 

“Tf we’re in the air quadrant, and the subterranean quadrant is under our 
feet, where are the land and sea quadrants?” I asked. 

“I don’t know,” she said. “But if we’re in a bowl. Maybe it’s like an 
island, and there’s water outside the bowl.” 

“You’re close,” a new, almost-familiar voice said. I turned to look at the 
skyfowl. The large eagle approached us from one of the deeper streets. 

“Mordecai,” I said, looking at the light brown and beige eagle. “Is that 
you? Like the real you?” 

He grunted. “Are you taking the scenic route? By the gods, I had to 
come looking for you. This isn’t what I really looked like. They made me a 
rock edge skyfowl. I was a centurion. Darker feathers. Larger wingspan. 
Bigger talons. Much more handsome.” 

Mongo rushed up and sniffed at the manager, and upon realizing who it 
was, Started bouncing up and down. 


“You eagle guys all look the same to me,” I said. We, again, had to 
move out of the way as a group of dromedarians marched past. There were 
seven of them, and the system listed them as Level 48 Waster Patrol. They 
were decked out in dark robes. They carried spears and more of the 
bazookas over their shoulders. These guys walked with purpose and headed 
straight for the exit. 

“Don’t get me wrong,” Mordecai continued. “It’s amazing. It’s the first 
time I’ve been in a body similar to my real form in a very long time. But 
they fucked me.” Mordecai spread out his wings. “I’m in the body of a 
goddamn cleric. That means I’m clipped. I can fly, but only short distances. 
Imagine if you suddenly woke up in the body of a eunuch and were then 
thrown into a supermodel orgy.” He looked up into the sky and sighed 
heavily. “At least I’m still a skyfowl. And anything is better than the damn 
toad.” 

Skyfowl didn’t have arms. Just feet and wings, like regular eagles. “Can 
you still, you know, do potion stuff in that body?” 

He looked at me as if I just asked to see nudes of his mom. 

“Better than ever,” he said. “Anyway, Katia, you were close. We are in 
a dome. Like a snowglobe. They’re calling them bubbles. The Necropolis 
of Anser is a very high tower, and we are on top of it.” He pointed up. “That 
bubble is bigger than it looks from here. The ground and the sea are far 
below us. You came in a few minutes late, so you missed the first 
announcement, but there’s going to be another announcement explaining 
the floor’s rules in a couple of minutes. Let’s get into a saferoom and get 
some food and listen to what they gotta say.” 

We walked toward Mordecai’s chosen inn, a bar called The Toe. I 
walked ahead with Mordecai, while Katia, Mongo, and Donut held back, 
oohing and ahhing at all the sights. The town was an odd mix of 
stereotypical, movie-style, middle-eastern village mixed in with the 
Burning Man Festival. The adobe buildings were oftentimes augmented 
with rusty, metallic exoskeletons. I couldn’t tell if it was armor, something 
functional, or just art. One residence had a steampunk-ish telescope on top, 
pointing up. Another held a weather station that glowed with enchantment. 
A battery-powered engine chugged outside of another building. A pair of 
young camels zipped by on a tracked cart, like a mini tractor, dragging a 
rickety wagon stacked impossibly high with branches. They laughed as they 
bounced. The whole town smelled of smoke and oil and dirt. 


Every NPC Pd seen so far was a camel, but that changed once we hit 
Hump Street. A pair of women standing outside one bar spied us, and they 
both changed shape, one into a human woman, the other into a skyfowl. 

“Are those changelings or doppelgangers?” I asked. The tag over them 
said they were what they portrayed. 

“Changelings, like me,” Mordecai said sourly. “Don’t trust them. If 
you’re feeling like you need to, you know, stick with the Desperado Club.” 

The cookbook had something similar to say about changelings. It’d 
called them thieving, backstabbing whores, or something of the like. 

I observed a pair of crawlers gawking at us. Both were level-22 humans. 
I waved, and they backed away into a different bar, as if they were afraid of 
me. 

“Fifteen days, huh?” I said, changing the subject. 

“T was expecting 12,” Mordecai said. “The fact they gave us three more 
than expected is not necessarily a good thing. I already know how the floor 
works, and we’re already screwed. So with the extra three days, I suspect 
we might be in for a nasty surprise.” 

“Why are we screwed?” I asked. 

“You’re stuck in a quadrant with maybe three dozen other crawlers. 
That’s it. Every one I’ve seen so far other than you guys is so 
underpowered, it’s a miracle they’ve made it this far. And what’s worse, 
you gotta use them to help you storm the gnome castle to get to the 
stairwell.” 

“Yeah,” I said. “We need to reset our buffs, get some sleep, open up all 
our boxes, and then see if we can find the place.” 

“Find it?” Mordecai asked. He pointed up. I looked, following his wing. 
High, high above, brushing the ceiling of the dome and far to the side was a 
tiny, little speck. “There’s your castle.” 

“Shit,” I said. 


The Toe was a simple, inn-style tavern with a Dromedarian proprietor. The 
place smelled like a petting zoo. This inn only employed a single prostitute, 
a woman changeling named Juice Box, who sat pouting in the comer after 


we all rejected her. In addition to the woman, the Toe also offered alcohol, 
food, and a few rooms. 

The incoming message was not a regular announcement as we still had 
ten more hours until the recap episode. The bar had the traditional three 
screens, but the middle screen with the top-10 was empty. A countdown 
appeared, indicating it would populate in ten hours after the recap. 
Apparently that was a normal thing. 

We ordered drinks and food and sat at the table, waiting for the 
message. It came quickly. 

Hello, Crawlers. Welcome to the fifth floor! We are so very excited 
for you to enjoy this new and exciting level! We have just over 178,000 
of you joining us. The last floor was somewhat of a mystery, and 
finding out how it worked was part of the fun. This floor is a little 
different. The layout is not so much a secret, and the rules are pretty 
simple. We want you guys to have a great time with this one. 

There are over 4,000 castles on this floor. Every castle contains a 
single stairwell. No two castles are the same. 

Think of a sheet of bubble wrap. Every bubble is its own self- 
contained world. Each individual world has four zones or “quadrants.” 

There are a total of 1,172 bubbles. All of you are inside of a bubble, 
equally and randomly distributed the best we could. That comes to a 
little more than 150 crawlers per bubble. Like with the castles, every 
bubble is different. 

Each bubble is split into four quadrants. Land, Sea, Air, and 
Subterranean. Each quadrant has a single castle within. Your mission 
is to find the castle, raid it, and take the throne room. Once the throne 
room is occupied or the quadrant’s boss is killed, the castle is 
considered conquered. The stairwell is also located in the throne room, 
so no need to be scrambling around, worried about not being able to 
find it. Easy, right? Take the castle, take the stairwell. 

“That sounds simple enough,” I said. But it wasn’t simple. If we 
couldn’t fly, how the hell could we get up there? It’s not like we could build 
a cannon to toss us. We were going to have to build a balloon. Or an 
airplane. Or find a way to shoot it down. Something. 

But, there is a small hitch. In order for your stairwell to actually 
open up and be passable, all four castles in your bubble must first be 


taken. That’s right, the Land, Sea, Air, and Subterranean castles must 
all fall in order for you to proceed to the sixth floor. 

Mordecai groaned. 

“Goddamnit,” I said. I exchanged a look with Katia, who looked ill. 
Even Donut seemed taken aback. 

Luckily for you, once you have taken your own castle, you may 
traverse outside of your quadrant to lend a hand to your fellow bubble 
buddies. Once all four castles are taken, the bubble is popped, and you 
may proceed outside of the bubble area if you wish. You may not enter 
other bubbles until they are also popped. 

Good luck, folks. Some of these castles are much easier to crack 
than others. Also, the second round of sponsorship bidding is 
underway. We’ll have another message in a few hours after the regular 
recap episode. Now get out there and kill, kill, kill! 

We sat in silence for several moments. Mordecai’s feathers around his 
neck ruffled and unruffled. He turned to look at us. 

“T’m going to assume right now that out of the 150 or so crawlers in this 
bubble, every single one of them is an incompetent idiot. That means you 
have less than four days to take each castle. So get that food in your 
mouths, open all the boxes you’ve accumulated, get your asses to bed, and 
then get back out there. We got a lot of work to do.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


THE FIRST THING DONUT DID WAS BOUNCE OVER TO THE MAILBOX AND GRAB 
her spellbook-of-the-floor club prize as we headed toward our personal 
space. 

“Maybe it’ll be a flying spell,” Katia muttered. 

“We won’t be so lucky,” I said. 

We did, however, have three very rich sponsors amongst us, and we 
were about to receive three more. I hated, absolutely hated, having to 
depend on them for help, but I was at a loss as to what we were going to do. 

“What’s the point of being able to leave the bubble if we can’t get into 
the other bubbles?” Katia asked. 

“Right now we need to focus on that flying castle,” I said. 

Imani: Hey, Carl. What’s a backstay? 

Carl: In sailing terms? It’s the rigging that runs from the mast to 
the back of the boat. There are different kinds. 

Elle: There are 20 of us, and not a one of these old farts has ever 
sailed a boat. Can you believe that? I told them not to put me into 
Meadow Lark. I would’ve been better off in one of the more expensive 
old folks homes surrounded by rich old codgers who grew up on boats, 
but no. The system is giving us a sailing tutorial, but it doesn’t tell us 
where the things are. How are we supposed to pull the boom vang when 
we don’t know what it is? This thing is more complicated than those 
trains. 

Imani: We need to figure this out quickly. There are rocks 
everywhere. What’s a spinnaker? Wait. We don’t need that part yet. 


Carl: Jesus, you guys need to be careful. Sailing a boat isn’t 
something you can figure out on the fly. It takes months. 

Imani: We would have an NPC helping us if Elle hadn’t iced him. 

Elle: He was being suspicious. We’re on our way back to the island. 
If we crash, we crash. There are boats everywhere. We have our pick. 

Imani: Not all of us can float, Elle. 

Carl: Weren’t you on the island already? You know what, never 
mind. Just be careful. 

Donut gasped. “Carl, Carl, I got a good one this time!” She glowed as 
she read the book. 

I took a deep breath. “Donut. We talk about the spellbooks before we 
read them. Remember?” 

“Unwad your panties, Carl.” 

Katia laughed. “You got that from Elle.” 

“T know, right? She’s been teaching me sayings from the olden times.” 

“That’s not very princess-like,” I grumbled. 

“Oh, Carl. Just chillax.” 

“That is a good spell,” Mordecai said. “It’s another utility spell, like 
Hole.” 

“What is it?” 

“Astral Paw,” Mordecai said. “Not as good as Astral Hand because 
there’s no thumb to manipulate and hold things. But there’s more force to it, 
especially at higher levels, and it can be used as a weapon. She can grow 
claws on it at level five. At level 10, she can make the paw a lot bigger. At 
level 15, her skills and abilities will translate directly to the paw. That’s a 
big deal since her regular swipe is pretty strong. There’s a similar spell we 
might want to get for you. Astral Fist. Anyway, she can manipulate items at 
a distance as if she was physically touching them. Distance grows with 
level-up. At level one, it’s about 10 meters.” 

I laughed. “Hey, Donut. If we were back home, you’d finally be able to 
knock that vase off the high shelf.” 

“That thing was a menace, Carl. It was haunted.” 

We’d had a high shelf covered with knickknacks and some heirloom 
vase thing over the television in our apartment. She’d tried several times to 
jump up there, but never got close. Sometimes she’d sit on my lap while I 
was playing a game, and she’d stare up at it and start meowing. 


We returned to our personal space. Almost two days later, and the 
cleaner bot had not yet finished cleaning all the blood. It was almost done. 
It was on the couch, sucking away at the back of the cushions when we 
entered. 

“That thing needs a raise,” I said. 

The bot beeped in agreement. 

“Open your boxes and then assign your stat points,” Mordecai said. 

I sat in the kitchen chair and pulled up the achievements I’d missed. I 
had several, including a few really good ones. I did not get any sort of credit 
for killing the mimic, though I hadn’t been expecting it. Most of the 
achievements revolved around dealing with Grull and tossing the 
Nightmare through the portal to blow the soul crystals. 


New Achievement! Let There Be Chaos. 

You have successfully summoned a god into the dungeon. That’s a 
great way to get more friends. Everybody loves it when someone brings 
immortal death machines to the party. 

Reward: It might’ve been a bad idea, but it’s sure going to be 
entertaining. 


New Achievement! Divine Epiphany. 

You have seen a deity. Don’t get too excited. It doesn’t mean you’re 
a prophet or anything like that. This is a pretty common achievement 
that all crawlers eventually receive if they survive long enough, so you 
aren’t really that special. Finding a god is easy. What you don’t want is 
for that god to find you. 

Reward: You now have the option to worship the god Grull. 

Admin Note: There is a new tab now available in your interface. 

I laughed. I looked up at the ceiling and said, “Grull can suck my dick.” 

Donut and Katia, who’d both just received the same achievement, also 
laughed. 

“Worship Grull? At this point, I’m quite sure it’s the other way around,” 
Donut added. 

New Achievement! Indomitable. 


You have been physically attacked by a deity, and you survived. 
This is a feat that has only been accomplished by a handful of crawlers 
in the history of Dungeon Crawler World. Good job! Unfortunately for 
you and anybody around you, whenever this happens, the other deities 
tend to notice. 

Reward: You have received a Legendary Deity’s Box. 

“Wow,” I said. A legendary box! 

The next achievement came in the APs creepy, I’m-touching-myself- 
and-smoking-a-cigarette voice. 

New Achievement! Smushed for Daddy. 

You have been stepped upon by a deity. You have survived the 
encounter. And while this wasn’t the pink-fleshed suppleness of a 
human-shaped foot that crushed your fragile, wet body, it’s nice 
sometimes to switch things around. You know, just to test the 
boundaries of your own limits. When one experiments, oftentimes one 
finds new and exciting ways to get that rush. 

While fun, it wasn’t quite the same. You probably don’t realize how 
lucky that is for you. 

Reward: You have received a Platinum Spicy Box. 

“For fuck’s sake,” I muttered. I remembered that moment, when the god 
had stepped upon me. I would’ve been obliterated had I not been under that 
potion’s protection. I remembered the dungeon had rumbled, but I was a 
little preoccupied to notice it at the time. After that, there were only a few 
more notable achievements. 

New Achievement! Hail Mary! 

You have initiated an attack that has caused more than 100 
casualties more than 100 kilometers from your current position. You’re 
either the universe’s greatest sniper, or you’ve been a sneaky, little, 
portal-using bitch. Either way, that’s rather impressive. You’d have a 
great career in politics ahead of you if, you know, we hadn’t destroyed 
your world and all the governments and stuff. 

Reward: You’ve received a Gold Sniper’s box! 


New Achievement! Extinction Event. 
You have, with a single attack, killed every last member of a non- 
unique species on a dungeon’s floor. That’s not an easy thing to do, and 


it takes a special brand of asshole to pull something like this off. 

Species killed: Wall Monitors. 

Reward: You have received a Platinum Asshole’s Box! 

The wall monitors were the lizard creatures that lived in the abyss. 
When the train had popped through the portal and blown everything to hell, 
we must’ve killed them all. 

In addition to all of that, we’d all received two bronze boss boxes for 
killing the mantaurs even though we hadn’t technically killed either of 
them. Both had been summoning vessels for Grull. I wasn’t going to 
complain. Nobody else in the party received the Indomitable achievement, 
though Katia had received a similar one for surviving a god’s magic attack, 
but it was only a gold box. Apparently Elle was the only other one to get the 
Legendary box. 

I also received a Silver Fan Box for having the most “switchovers” 
during a battle. I didn’t know what that actually meant, but we’d find out 
tomorrow what the people had picked for me. Since it was a lower-tier fan 
box, I wasn’t too enthusiastic. 

Of the three of us, Donut had received the least amount of boxes, 
though she did receive a Platinum That Wasn’t Too Smart, Was It? Box for 
attacking the Province Boss. Her two regular boss boxes were coins and 
healing-themed scrolls. However, she did receive a scroll that filled me with 
dread. 

Scroll of Water Breathing. 

Allows you to breathe underwater. Lasts as many seconds as your 
intelligence stat times three. It does not protect you from swimmer’s 
ear or being eaten by an undead barracuda. I hope you know how to 
swim. 

“I am saying this right now, Carl,” Donut announced the moment she 
received the scroll. “I am a cat. Cats do not swim. Cats do not go in water. It 
is unnatural, and it is not going to happen.” 

Mordecai: Goddamnit, Donut. Don’t say that stuff out loud. 

Donut: I CAN’T EXACTLY SAY IT IN CHAT ANYMORE, CAN 
I, MORDECAI? 

Mordecai: Your chats are still protected if I’m in on it. If you need 
to vent, make sure you do it to me. 

She swiped her tail angrily several times. “This is not acceptable. I do 
not like this one bit.” 


“The scrolls are clunky,” Mordecai said, sighing. “If I can get the right 
materials, I will make a potion for water breathing. There are also several 
different spells that’ll allow you to travel freely in water.” 

“What about flying?” I asked. 

He shook his head. “Spells and items, yes. Lots and lots. But potions? If 
you’d saved one of the bench upgrade coupons, then maybe. I really need 
two upgrades. Otherwise we’ll have to do it another way.” He said this 
loudly. He was really talking to our sponsors. 

Donut’s final, platinum box contained another magic book. It was a 15- 
mana spell called Wall of Fire. 

“That’s an escape spell,” Mordecai said. “It’s about a 10 meter wide, 
two meter high wall of fire that lasts 15 seconds at level 1. It’s a common 
spell. Powerful later on, but it’s also fire. Fire tends to spread. When the 
magic goes away, if it’s cast on something flammable, it stays on fire. I’ve 
seen it a hundred times. Fire gets out of control very easily.” 

“Tt’s not Fireball,’ Donut grumbled. “That’s what I really want.” She 
glowed as she read the book. 

Katia opened her boxes next. In addition to gold, she received several 
more of the water-breathing scrolls along with antidote potions. The water 
breathing scrolls and antidote pots seemed to be pretty common, making 
them this floor’s version of the torch and the bandage. In her gold 
Survivor’s box, she received a skill potion that she was forced to drink right 
away. It raised her Catcher skill, which she’d been training relentlessly, up 
to level 11. 

I went next. My boss boxes contained a few healing scrolls, a useless 
magical shirt, and a handful of the water-breathing scrolls. But I also 
received one more invisibility potion. That potion had saved my ass during 
the fight with Grull. 

“That’s an easy, but expensive, potion to make,” Mordecai said. “Some 
of the materials for it are rare. It’s good that you’re getting them.” 

“It’s like once you start getting something, you’re more likely to keep 
getting it,” I said. 

“That’s absolutely right,” he agreed. “And sometimes things, like those 
water-breathing scrolls, are a not-so-subtle hint about what you might find 
on a level. See all those antidote potions Katia received? It means we have 
lots of poison-dealing monsters and traps on this floor as well. Good thing 
both you and Donut are immune to poison.” 


“How wonderful for you,” Katia said drily. 

I received 40,000 gold for surviving the level in the top 10. Donut had 
gotten 30,000 and Katia 10,000. We still needed to purchase some 
environmental upgrades for the space, but at the moment we had about 
650,000 gold between the three of us, and that was before I opened the rest 
of my boxes. 

My gold sniper’s box contained a crafting item. It was a case containing 
25 small, black items, each about the size of a bottle cap. 

Surefire. Crafting item. 

A Surefire adds the “Guided” status to any projectile, powered or 
not. It may be utilized on a vast array of crafting tables. If added to an 
arrow or bolt, you must choose a target prior to unleashing the 
weapon, and the projectile will seek that target. 

If added to a trap, additional options become available. Such as 
“Target any healers within range” or “Target anyone who thinks it’s 
okay to put mayonnaise on hotdogs.” 

If added to a powered weapon, such as an explosive-based rocket, 
targets may be assigned during the crafting process or upon firing, but 
not both. 

Note: this upgrade alone does not add range to the projectile. 

“Cool,” I said, moving to my two platinum boxes. 

The platinum Spicy box—the one I’d gotten because the system AI was 
a goddamned pervert—contained a toe ring. 

Enchanted Toe Ring of the Leprous Bandit. 

This is a unique item. 

Most children in the universe know the exciting tale of the Leprous 
Bandit, the infamous human thief whose people were starving to death 
because of a planet-wide quarantine. While all the planet’s residents 
were carriers of the disease, it did not affect them. But because the 
disease was deadly to the Forsoothed, the planet’s regents, the aliens 
placed themselves in floating protection platforms, guarding the 
gardens and food stores in hopes to starve the humans all out. 

The bandit climbed a mountain, jumped onto a platform, and broke 
into the floating garden. He was quickly killed, of course, but not 
before he infected the Forsoothed and caused them to flee the planet. 
Thanks to the bandit’s intervention, the human planet survived 


another 100 years before it was obliterated in an unrelated conflict. To 
this day, the Leprous Bandit remains an inspiration. 

This toe ring imbues the following: 

The Sticky Feet Benefit. 

The Super Spreader Benefit. 

“Two benefits in one item?” Mordecai said. “That’s a pretty damn 
valuable ring. That’s almost legendary tier.” 

Sure enough, I stuck it in my inventory to check, and its value was up 
there, right above the Ring of Divine Suffering and below that Kimaris 
figure. I inspected the two benefits. 

Sticky Feet. 

Once every six hours, for (Dexterity x 2) seconds, you may walk 
upon a non-horizontal surface, such as a wall or ceiling. Gravity will 
not change, so leave your beer on the ground and make sure you tuck 
in your shirt first. Your bare feet must be in contact with the surface. 
No socks, no shoes. 

“Hey, I’m like spiderman,” I said. “At least my feet are. Too bad it’s 
only once every six hours. I looked at the second benefit. 

Super Spreader. 

You have been given the power of every plague rat and 
kindergartner since the dawn of time. You may pass any active debuffs 
onto a target of your choice once per hour. This does not remove the 
debuff from yourself. 

“Gross,” I said as I slid the toe ring right onto my left pinky. I sighed, 
looking down at my shiny feet. 

When my next box opened, the Platinum Asshole’s Box, I realized what 
it was the moment the symbol appeared in the air. 

“Oh fuck me,” I said. A moment passed. I looked at my arms. I rubbed 
my hand across my neck. “Where did it go?” I said. 

“Tt’s on your face, Carl,” Donut said, disgust in her voice. “You’ve been 
ruined. You look like one of those white guy rappers now.” 

Katia laughed, leaning in. “Don’t worry, it’s tiny. It’s just below your 
left eye. Barely noticeable. Like a teardrop tattoo, but smaller. It’s almost 
like a freckle. What is it? It looks like a gecko foot. It’s cute.” 

“Tt’s a tattoo of a lizard foot,” I said. 

Extinction Sigil Tattoo 

Wall Monitor Race. 


Removes automatic hostility for any natural enemies of lizard-class 
creatures. 

Warning: holding this Extinction Sigil will cause lizard-class 
enemies to deal 20% more damage against you. Any Wall Monitors will 
deal 150% more damage against you. 

You may only hide this tattoo with a cover-up sleeve. 

“How in the hell am I supposed to use a cover-up sleeve on my face?” 

“Hmm,” Mordecai said, also examining the tattoo. “I don’t think I’ve 
ever seen this. I’ve seen plenty like that goblin pass tattoo you have, but not 
like this. Everybody hates lizards, but I don’t know what their natural 
enemies are. Maybe birds. They like eating eggs.” 

“I guess we’ll find out,” I said, reaching up to touch the tattoo under my 
eye. I now had three tats. My goblin pass, my Desperado Club pass, and 
now this. Hopefully it was as small and unnoticeable as Katia said. 

I had one item left. My legendary deity’s box. It was a potion. It looked 
different than most potions. The bottle was rounded and more ornate, like 
an expensive perfume bottle. Smoke rose from the glass. 

“Holy shit,” Mordecai said. “Can I see it?” He picked it up with his 
talon, and it was shaking. 

“Who’s Pawna?” I asked. 

“She’s the goddess of peace,” Mordecai said. “In the pantheon, she’s 
Grull’s sister and arch enemy. Don’t take this now. Save it.” 

I passed the potion around to the others and then took it back. I added it 
to my inventory. It was the first item I’d seen that was valued higher than 
the Kimaris figure. 

The description was very simple. 

Pawna’s Tears. 

This potion adds plus five to any spell or skill of your choosing. 

“Why is it so valuable?” Katia asked. “Because it’s plus five? We’ve 
seen skill potions before. We’ve seen potions that max out skills, like that 
one that Maggie My lady has. Plus there are those Cheat Code potions that 
do the same thing, but for three skill levels.” 

Mordecai answered. “It’s valuable, my dear, because it’s not only plus 
five, but he can choose any skill he wishes. Legendary skill potions that 
max out skills are also quite valuable, but they are only available for a 
limited number of skills. The Cheat Code potion is also precious. It is plus 
three to a random skill. However, the Cheat Code has a short shelf life, 


meaning he has to take it immediately. With this potion, Carl can save it. He 
can now train one of his skills to fifteen, take the potion, and raise it to 
twenty. It is, quite simply, the single best item of loot he has received since 
he entered the dungeon.” 

“Not including the pet biscuit,” Donut said. 

“Not including the pet biscuit,” Mordecai agreed. 

“My powerful strike is already 13,” I said. 

“Its 13 because you have six levels from equipment buffs. We’ll want 
to use it on something that’s naturally 15. Catch-all skills like Powerful 
Strike are hard to train up, especially after 15, but items that increase the 
skill are more common. We’ll need to sit down and decide which specific 
skill to use it on. We don’t have to decide right away, and we should 
probably wait until after you pick your subclass when we hit the sixth floor. 
Things might jumble around somewhat after that.” 

“Didn’t Elle get the same box? What did she get?” Katia asked. The god 
had physically swiped at Elle a few times, though he hadn’t actually 
touched her. She’d still gotten the box. 

Carl: Elle, what did you get in your deity box? 

Elle: Not a good time to talk. Imani crashed the boat. I had to freeze 
the water to keep everybody from drowning. But I got a spellbook 
called Graupel. Big ice storm. Most powerful spell I have now, but Pm 
kinda scared to try it. It costs 50 mana. Long cooldown. Talk soon. 

I told them. Mordecai shook his head. “That’s a war spell. Tell her to be 
careful with it while we’re stuck in these snow globes. Do you know 
anybody who is in this same bubble?” 

“That’s a good question,” I said. “I haven’t asked yet.” 

“T asked the former daughters, but nobody answered me,” Katia said. 
“By the way, Eva is still alive. She’s still on my chat.” 

“Tf she’s not in this bubble, then we don’t have to worry about it. Keep 
your find crawler up and running.” 

“I have been. There are eight crawlers I can see nearby, but I don’t 
know any of them. They’re all in the low twenties.” 

“Hmm,” Mordecai said. “I wonder if they’re averaging out the player 
levels in the bubbles. That’!l explain why we’re stuck with the dregs. Carl, 
your level 41 might be the highest in the dungeon. We won’t know until the 
top 10 populates.” 


I sent out a group message, asking if anybody else was in bubble 
number 543. I received only one reply. A human named Gwendolyn Duet. 
She was a level-27 Boring OP Fighter. That was her class’s actual name. 
“Boring OI Fighter.” Pd seen “Fighter” listed before, but not that one. I 
couldn’t remember meeting her, but she was pretty vocal and outspoken in 
the chats. 

She was in the land quadrant, so somewhere far below us at sea level. 

Gwendolyn Duet: Oh, hey bomber guy. It looks like we’re 
neighbors. All of these dumbasses I’m stuck with don’t know what 
they’re doing. Me and the other two folks in my team are the highest 
level here. We rolled land, and we rolled something called the 
Sandcastle of the Mad Dune Mage. There are giant snakes, giant 
spiders, and these half-human, half-scorpion punk rock guys with no 
shirts and nipple rings running around all over the place. Plus bird 
things carrying chainsaws, though we haven’t fought them yet. We 
haven’t checked out the castle up close, but it’s a big ‘un. There are 
four levels of walls. It’s built into the side of that giant tomb or 
mountain or whatever that is. I don’t know how we’re going to get in. 

Carl: Do you have a Desperado Club down there? 

Her damn name took up half the screen. I went into the chat interface 
and changed it to “Gwen.” 

Gwen: There are three villages not including the castle, and I heard 
one of them does, but this one doesn’t. I don’t have access anyway. I’m 
a proper fucking lady. I got a Club Vanquisher ring. 

Carl: Okay. Keep me updated. If you know anybody in the sea or 
the tomb quadrants, let me know. 

Gwen: 10-4. There’s a coral reef ringing the island. You can see it 
from the shore. I’ve seen sharks and jellyfish. Don’t know where the 
sea castle is. Ain’t seen nothing on the water’s surface yet. Don’t know 
shit about the tomb, but there are lots of entrances we can’t get into. It 
looks like it’s a maze inside. After that last floor, I ain’t too keen on 
going in there. 

Carl: Roger that. 

Fifteen days suddenly seemed like an impossibly-short time. 


Post nap, we reset our buffs. After a quick discussion with Mordecai, we 
decided we needed to keep up our strict training schedule. Katia and Donut 
hit the training room while I returned to the village. We gave Mordecai our 
environmental coupons and several hundred thousand gold. He and Donut 
were going to purchase the store interface and kitchen upgrade. Donut also 
wanted one of the social upgrades, something that’d allow us to see 
messages from followers. None of us except her thought it was a good idea, 
and she’d been pouting about it for an hour straight. 

I let Mordecai deal with that while I stepped out of the Toe. The “sun” 
was out, though it was threatening to sink below the western edge of the 
tomb’s lip. I had to hurry. 

All up and down the street, the prostitutes standing out front of the other 
bars suddenly turned into human women. A few of them gave themselves 
ridiculous proportions, like Odette-sized breasts. They turned a rainbow of 
colors. I noted about half of them were male before the change. 

There didn’t appear to be any other customers about. I shook my head 
and moved one street closer to the wall. “I can be anything you want, 
honey,” one of them called after me as I walked away. “I have the biggest 
library in town.” 

I found the house I was looking for and knocked on the tall door. 

I was expecting a lanky dromedarian, but the door was answered by a 
small, gray, featureless humanoid. Surprised, I took a step back. It was like 
a person wearing one of those body socks. No nose, no eyes, just a blank 
mannequin. The thing stood only about five feet tall. It reached forward and 
touched my hand. I took another step back. If it didn’t have the white dot of 
an NPC, I would’ve clobbered it. I read the description and was glad I’d 
stopped myself. 

Skarn. Level-3 Changeling Juvenile. 

As I watched, he changed, features lumping together and clumsily 
forming into that of an eight-year-old boy. Unlike Katia’s early attempts at 
changing, by the time he was done, he was indistinguishable from a regular 
human. He wore heart-covered boxers and clothes identical to my own for 
about ten seconds until it changed to a dromedarian-like robe. The tag over 
his head even changed. The kid looked up at me, wide-eyed, not saying 
anything. 

“Uh, hey kid,” I said. “Is your mom or dad home?” 


“My parents were killed in the bombings. Flint is out on patrol and 
won’t be home until after the darkness. He takes care of me now. He says I 
should always take the form of new people I meet so they feel more 
comfortable.” The kid delivered it in a robotic, completely unnatural voice, 
like he was talking for the first time in his life. 

“Yeah, good idea,” I said, completely freaked out. It hadn’t been a thing 
before, but I now had a new phobia: creepy-ass little kids. 

What the kid had said finally registered. Shit. “I see you have that cool 
telescope on the roof of your house, and I wanted to use it to look at the 
gnome castle.” 

The kid, whose name was Skarn, brightened, suddenly becoming 
animated. The more he talked, the more personality he formed. “The 
Wasteland? I can show you that!” He paused. “Flint says I’m supposed to 
ask for a gold coin. He says orphans can only get by if they use their talents 
to take money from people dumber than them.” 

“I take it Flint is a dromedarian?” I asked as I followed the kid into the 
house. It was a wide, open room with a straw bed, a tall table, and a whole 
wall of herbs and vegetables hanging from it. A ladder led to the hatch in 
the ceiling. The kid scurried up it, much too quickly. 

“We had a village, but the gnomes bombed it,” Skarn said. “Most of us 
died, but the dromedarians took us in. Not many kids lived. Ruby lived, but 
Flint says she’s destined to spend her life in Weird Shit Alley.” 

“Why did the gnomes bomb you?” 

“Flint says it’s because gnomes are short little assholes who deserve 
nothing but to be trampled to death and to be ripped apart by the feral 
geese.” 

“Ah,” I said, coming onto the roof. 

From here, I had a panoramic view of the city. Most of the buildings, 
including the Desperado Club one street over, were only a single floor. The 
city hall was nearby, rising about four stories not including the massive 
fabric swirl atop it, which was another two. With the air clear, I could see 
the entirety of the “bowl.” It was almost, but not quite, a circle, maybe a 
little more than three miles from edge to edge. I could see the other city in 
the distance, a mirror of this one on the opposite wall. Sand dunes and cave 
entrances dotted the dune-swept badlands between the two towns. Metallic 
wrecks dotted the landscape. Hulking shapes patrolled the desert, too far to 


see what they were. The area appeared much smaller than it had seemed 
now that I could see it all. 

This is all we have to work with. 

Skarn moved to the telescope, which was pointed toward the desert. “I 
like to watch the patrol to make sure they’re okay. Flint says if I grow up 
big and strong, maybe they’ | let me stay, and I can join the patrol one day.” 

I thought of the mass of desperate prostitutes one street over. It still 
didn’t make sense to me, but the story was becoming a little more clear. 
Skarn moved the telescope, searching. The telescope was a white tube 
covered in pipes and gears. The material of the body was odd, maybe 
ceramic. I examined it. 

Enchanted Gnome FarSeerer. 

Used to sight long-range targets for their bomb runs, the FarSeerer 
is credited as one of the key inventions that allowed the Dirigible 
Gnomes to obtain air superiority. When properly installed on a 
Gnomish Dreadnaught, this device increases the accuracy of gravity- 
based bombs by 75%. Allows for inspection and information on objects 
at a distance. It’s pretty good for spying on your neighbors, too. You 
don’t need porn when you got this thing hanging off the edge of your 
airship. 

Warning: All gnomes targeted with this device are given a notice 
that they are being watched. 

“Where did you get this?” I asked. 

“Flint found it in the dunes. There’s lots of crashed stuff from the last 
war out there. There! There it is! Okay, you can look now. Hurry ‘cause it 
moves. But you gotta pay.” 

I flipped a gold coin to the kid, who let it fall to the roof. He picked it 
up with two hands and did a little jump. “Thanks, mister! Use the turny 
thing on the right to zoom in and out.” 

“Sure, kid,” I said, leaning into the eyepiece. I was expecting the image 
to appear upside-down like with the telescope we had on the cutter, but the 
gnomish castle came into view, big and clear. 

“Whoa,” I muttered, surprised at the telescope’s clarity. “It’s huge. It 
looks like a goddamned floating junkyard.” 

“Tt used to be bigger, but some of it broke off and fell in the water.” 

The Wasteland Castle appeared to be a jagged-edged, almost- 
rectangular island ripped straight from the ground. There was so much 


going on with the thing, it was difficult to focus on the whole. From this 
angle, I could only see the top, shingled roof of what appeared to be a house 
sitting on the center of the landmass, but dozens of other smaller structures 
dotted the edges, most of which were made with what appeared to be 
corrugated metal, similar to the walls of Hump Town. A group of absolutely 
colossal balloons kept the island aloft. Three brown, blimp-shaped balloons 
were flanked by a pair of even-bigger, round monstrosities. The five 
balloons were individually attached to the island by glowing ropes, and the 
whole group was held together with a net. The distinctive glimmer of a 
magical shield surrounded the balloons, causing the whole top section to 
shimmer in the dying light of the day. 

If the scale was correct in my head, the island itself was approximately 
the width of three football fields. Like a goddamned floating aircraft carrier, 
but wider. Several of the small buildings dotting the exterior were actually 
weapons, I realized. I could see ballista and trebuchets and all sorts of weird 
odds and ends. 

Hundreds of ropes and chains and other strange items hung from the 
bottom of the flying island, twinkling in the light. This included what 
appeared to be small, round huts. Some of the items only hung a few dozen 
feet, but other chains and ropes and oddities dangled past the telescope’s 
display. 

Also attached to the side of the floating island were dozens of different 
flying machines of various sizes, from tiny, single-person hot-air balloons, 
to bus-sized, floating boats that appeared to be held aloft by magic. Most 
were moored to the far side of the island. All of the devices seemed to be 
mismatched, rusting hulks that shouldn’t be aloft, like the cars in a Mad 
Max movie. As I watched, one hovering vehicle, the size of a rowboat, 
floated into view. The driver was clearly a gnome, similar in size and shape 
to the Bopca Protectors, but maybe a little smaller and with even more 
bulbous noses. It wore the stereotypical red, pointy hat. In fact, I realized, 
the whole damn island was covered with the little, red hats bouncing 
around. 

The small airship was held aloft like a drone, with a set of four 
propellors spread out under the vehicle. The distinctive shape of a 
refrigerator-sized bomb dangled precariously underneath the small airship. I 
zoomed in further, and to my surprise, all the information appeared like I 
was examining it up close. 


Gnomish Knock-Knock 

Type: Fuel-air bomb. 

Effect: Thermobaric Explosion. 

Status: 40. Barely stable. I wouldn’t be tapping on the thing. 

Ever seen a hundred Dromedarians die because their lungs 
imploded, followed by their skin getting melted off their body just 
before they all shatter into mist? Well now’s your chance! Fun for the 
whole family, this was the main weapon of the Gnomish Bombardier 
Squads. There are only a few of these things left, and they’re usually 
strapped to the failing air force’s most reliable patrol ships. 

The fuel-air Knock-Knocks were once used to devastating effect in 
the early days of the last conflict. The remaining munitions are instead 
used as a mutual-standoff weapon. These are simple, crude, but highly- 
effective bombs. They are detonated using an adjustable, pressure- 
based fuse that can allow the bombardier to fine-tune the height at 
which they explode. Requires the bomber to know the altitude of their 
target to obtain maximum efficacy. 

Famously unstable. But god-damn do they put on a show. 

“Yikes,” I muttered, pulling back. I looked down at the kid. “Did they 
drop one of those knock-knock bombs on your old village?” 

“Yep,” he said. “It was a long time ago, though. I don’t remember it. 
Flint says the gnomes are bomb-dropping cowards. He says anybody who 
uses a bomb is a pussy.” 

“Flint sounds like a real peach. Why don’t the gnomes drop bombs 
here?” 

Skarn shrugged. “Flint says it’s because of what they have in the town 
hall. The Bactrians have the same deal. That’s why there’s peace.” 

“What is it?” 

“Flint says they don’t know what the Bactrians have. But here in Hump 
Town we have something that makes it so the gnomes don’t bomb us. The 
gnomes have a leader guy who’s really mean, but we have something he 
wants to keep safe, so he doesn’t bomb our town. They still attack anything 
outside the walls. That’s why Flint and the others only go out right after the 
storm, when the Wasteland is over the water.” 

“But do you know what they have hidden in town hall?” 

“I don’t know. I’m not allowed to go over there. I know it eats 
mushrooms.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


“OKAY, HERE’S WHAT WE GOTTA DO,” I SAID AFTER I FINISHED MY 
training. “Step one is to find the other crawlers and make sure we’re all on 
the same page. Step two is to figure out who they have locked up in the 
town hall. It’s probably the gnome leader guy’s kid or something.” 

“Maybe it’s his pet,” Donut said. “Nobody wants to bomb their pet. 
What eats mushrooms?” 

“Lots of things,” Mordecai said. 

“So, we go out in there, and if it turns out it’s this gnome guy’s kid or 
something, what’s the next move?” Katia asked. She was doing her best 
dromedarian impersonation. It was almost flawless. The system pegged it at 
95%. 

“It’s going to depend on what it is, but after we find out, we’ll have to 
go over to that other town and do the same thing again, I think. It sounds 
like they also have something to keep themselves safe. So far we only know 
a little kid’s version of the story. We need to understand as much as possible 
before we move on.” 

“Okay, but before you go out there, let’s do a quick tour of the new 
upgrades,” Mordecai said, indicating the new kitchen renovation, which 
was nothing more than three cabinets sitting in a row against the blank wall 
of the kitchen. “We’ll be able to upgrade this into something much better 
once we get to the tier-two upgrades. I’m looking forward to that, mostly 
because of the magic room. But we’ll talk about that later. These are food 
synthesizers, bought with Katia’s coupon. You can only use one a day, but 
this upgrade came with three different cabinets, so it’s breakfast, lunch, and 
dinner or whatever. I know from experience these things can be a little 


buggy. I suggest not picking the same item twice in a row, or suddenly 
you’ll find yourself with that as your only choice. Otherwise the selection 
changes every day and is customized to you. It ll learn your tastes.” 

I walked up to the first cabinet, put my hand on the door, and a menu 
popped up. There were about twenty choices listed, all of them breakfast 
items, from cornflakes to bacon to hominy grits. I clicked on Sausage 
Bagel Sandwich, opened the door, and the kinda-hot sandwich was sitting 
there, like the wooden cabinet was a microwave. 

“Hey, cool,” I said. 

“Don’t get too excited,” Katia said. “Wait until you try it.” 

I took a bite. It tasted like a microwave biscuit sandwich, which I’d 
probably eaten a thousand of over the years. 

“Its not bad,” I said, chewing. “It’s not great, either. Bopca food is 
better.” 

A new buff notification appeared. 

You are full! Your warm tummy increases your healing speed by 
5%. It decreases debuff times by 5%. It lowers all indirect damage by 
5%. 

“The food buff lasts all day, so you don’t have to eat all three meals 
here,” Mordecai said. 

“Thank god,” Katia said. “I had it give me skyr and jam, and it tasted 
like bad sour cream mixed with Jolly Ranchers.” 

“What the hell is skyr?” I asked. 

“The second upgrade is just as important,” Mordecai said, interrupting. 
“Tt is the marketplace interface.” 

“Marketplace?” I asked. “So we can buy stuff?” 

“Yes and no,” he said. “We bought the marketplace upgrade early, and it 
doesn’t really open up until the next floor. For now it’s like having a virtual 
general store interface. The second-tier version is the same thing but twice 
as expensive, so we had to buy it now. You can purchase basic potions and 
scrolls, and random items will also pop up for sale. You can sell things. 
Carl, this was your coupon, but we gave it to Donut to use, so she got credit 
for it. It is her account. We did this because her Charisma bonus is 
automatically added to the prices.” 

Donut had actually told me they were doing this as they did it, and I had 
said it was okay. If she died or we separated parties, I’d lose the upgrade. 


But at this point, our shit was so intertwined, losing this particular upgrade 
would be the least of my worries. 

“How does it work?” I asked. I already knew the answer to this 
question, but I wanted Mordecai to state it. 

He pointed with his wing over at a screen sitting against the wall next to 
his door. I hadn’t noticed it until now. 

“Tt’s a simple interface. It’s like buying and selling on Ebay. There will 
even be bid auctions available next floor. If you want to sell anything 
magical, like those low-tier clothing items you keep receiving, I’d wait until 
then. For regular junk, just toss it to the AI storekeeper, and you’ll get a 
good price thanks to Donut.” 

“I don’t like it,” Donut said. “It doesn’t let you haggle. Also, it’s broken. 
It says my hats are only worth one gold piece each. We need to get it fixed.” 

“Bid auctions?” I asked. “The customer base gets smaller and smaller 
each floor. How many of us have this thing? Do people actually use it?” 

“Oh, yes. The tourists and the factions will be able to start trading using 
the system once the sixth floor opens. You’!l see. The marketplace will be 
flooded. Some of the factions will be snatching up anything magical that 
appears, so you’|l make some good money selling your loot. Much more 
than you would get selling it to a store.” 

“Wait,” I said. “Are we going to have to fight the guys we’re selling this 
gear to?” 

“Yes,” he said. “This is how they outfit their armies. But if you don’t 
sell your gear, somebody else will.” 

“So Prince Stalwart has one of these interface things, too?” 

“Actually, no,” Mordecai said. “The factions on the ninth floor don’t get 
the interface. The funnel city of Larracos has actual stores with NPC 
proprietors, and the faction leaders have to physically go to the store and 
buy or bid on the items. Once you crawlers get there, everybody gets kicked 
out of Larracos and the fighting begins. So you make the most money 
selling your gear on the sixth through eighth floor. Once the ninth floor 
opens, the factions are no longer able to buy new gear and can only take it 
from the other armies. I’ll explain all of that when you get there.” 

“I don’t like the idea of selling shit to people who’ll use it against us.” 

Mordecai grunted. “They’ll mostly be using it on each other. Now go 
over there and check out the interface.” 

“T will in a bit,” I said. “We got work to do.” 


I actually really wanted to go over there and take a look at the interface, 
mostly because it would finally give me a definitive gold value for most of 
the items in my inventory. However, I’d been warned by The Dungeon 
Anarchist’s Cookbook against using the marketplace interface while I had 
the book on me. Currently, the book showed itself as having almost no 
value. Certain things, like that unexploded nuke also showed themselves as 
having no value in my inventory. However, the cookbook included this 
warning: 

<Note added by Crawler Batbilge, 12" Edition> 

Be careful with the marketplace interface. It uses a different system to 
value items than whatever you might have installed into your UI. It tags this 
tome as a unique, heirloom item, giving it a ridiculous value, something like 
50 million gold. Nothing has happened yet, but I am afraid of giving a third 
party access to my inventory like that. 

<Note added by Crawler Allister, 13" Edition > 

I don’t know if this is the cause, but this appears to be Batbilge’s last 
entry into the Cookbook. I’ve been leaving the cards casually on my bed 
whenever I use the marketplace. Make sure you don't have it on you to be 
safe. 

I knew the cookbook manifested itself in different forms. For Allister, it 
appeared as a massive deck of playing cards from his home planet. They 
were for a game called T’Ghee, which seemed to be a mix between chess 
and go fish from the little information Allister gave. The game was also a 
part of their meditation-based religion, which made it easy for Allister to 
spend hours studying the cards. 

I had a little bedside table in my room, though I barely ever went in 
there. Donut still insisted on us sleeping together. I would try to leave the 
book in there and then go use the marketplace later. 

But for now, we had work to do. 


The first two crawlers were a pair of humans who’d set themselves up at a 
brothel bar called Spit and Swallow. The bar’s logo was a bird skewered on 
a stick. We entered the dark, incense-smelling saferoom. Mongo was in his 
carrier. Donut stood on my shoulder. Katia stood beside me. A dromedarian 


barkeep looked up at us. Multiple dromedarians were here, sitting at tables 
and drinking at the bar. Quiet music wafted through the large, L-shaped 
room. I saw it was a young, teenaged changeling playing a stringed 
instrument that was like a square-shaped guitar. The music was subtle, but 
haunting. It had kind of an Asian vibe. It was completely out-of-place for 
such a dive. 

The two crawlers were the same guys we saw when we went into the 
Toe earlier. The first was a thin and tall man with an angular face, about 25 
years old. He had olive skin and looked he might be of middle eastern 
origin. He was a level-22 Hammersmith named Firas M. The second was 
an overweight, balding guy about the same age. He looked maybe Spanish. 
He was a level-22 Pest Exterminator named Louis Santiago 2. 

Sitting on Louis’s lap was a prostitute. She was doing a rough 
approximation of Jessica Rabbit. Louis and Firas were laughing as we came 
in. “This is much better than the slave Leia,” Louis said. 

The woman pouted. “You said that was good. What about my....” She 
trailed off, seeing us stop at the table. 

“They’re making her change into different famous people,” Katia said, 
sounding disgusted. They could hear what she was saying, but she spoke as 
if they couldn’t. 

“Yup,” I said. Each time they would have to describe the character like 
they were doing a sketch for a police artist. Their Jessica Rabbit was close, 
but the woman’s forehead was too small, and the nose was much too big. 
Plus the dress was all wrong. 

The prostitute, a level 14 “Human” was looking at Katia up and down 
with a sour expression. She spit on the ground before getting up and 
moving to the other side of the room. 

“Why I never,” Donut said. “Did you see that? I don’t think she likes 
you, Katia.” 

“Mordecai warned me,” Katia said, watching the prostitute move away. 
The woman melded back into the weird, changeling shape before leaning 
up against the bar. She was the only prostitute in the room. “He said 
sometimes shapeshifters don’t like each other very much.” 

“She’s probably just jealous,” Donut said. “You can turn into anything 
you want, and they can only do regular monsters they’ve touched.” 

“Maybe,” Katia said. “They can still change their features, obviously. 
Plus they gain some of the abilities of the race they choose. Sometimes I 


think that’s better. I’m never going to be able to fly, not like them.” 

We’d discussed this earlier. Katia, as a doppelganger, could change into 
a flying creature and possibly get herself off the ground. But even with no 
mass added, she weighed more than most flying creatures anywhere close 
to her size, making liftoff a problem. She’d have to go big, like a dragon or 
something, but that would take a lot of work and time to get right, time we 
simply didn’t have. A changeling’s mass changed wildly from body to 
body. I asked Mordecai about it, and he said simply, “Magic.” 

The two crawlers were just looking up at us, wide-eyed the whole time. 

“You’re Carl,” Louis said. He turned to Firas. “I told you that was Carl.” 

“I believed you,” he said. 

“We’re working on a plan to get off this floor,” I said. “I’m collecting 
everybody in town so we can discuss it. We’re all going to meet up at the 
Toe after the recap episode.” 

“Toe,” Louis said, cracking up. “Get it?” he said to Firas. 

“Get what?” Firas asked. 

“The joke! The name of the bar is a joke.” 

“The Toe is a joke?” 

“Yes, man. Come on. It’s a camel town. You wouldn’t call a restaurant 
back home the human finger, would you? You’d just call it the finger.” 

“What?” Firas said. “I don’t get it.” 

I finally realized both of these guys were drunk off their asses. There 
was no debuff warning over their heads. I still didn’t understand why it was 
there sometimes and not others. The shitfaced debuff only appeared in 
specific circumstances, I guessed. 

“Look,” I said, leaning in. “We need to all work together. The recap is in 
like six hours. Meet us there.” 

“Or what?” Louis said, suddenly sounding inexplicably hostile. “You 
gonna blow us up?” 

“No,” Donut said, jumping on the table and scattering their glasses. 
Vodka spilled everywhere. “Carl won’t hurt you. But if you’re not a part of 
the team, we are going to make sure you are kicked out of town. Have you 
seen the mobs out there in the desert? I haven’t seen anything lower than 
level 30. And since you two chuckleheads are level 22, I don’t think that 
will go so well. Now say, ‘We’ll be there, Carl.’” 

“We’ll be there, Carl,” Louis said, swallowing. 

“Lovely,” Donut said. 


“Chuckleheads?” Katia asked. “Another Elle term?” 

“T got that one from the AI!” she said. “I’ve been waiting to use it.” 

“Those guys aren’t going to help,” I said. “They’ve already given up, 
and they’re coasting.” 

“T want to know how they got this far,” Katia said. 

Itd only been dark for two hours, and dawn was already starting to 
crack in the distance as we left the Spit and Swallow. 

“Hey,” I asked a passing dromedarian who walked with a massive 
bundle of reeds on his back. He stopped to look at us impassively. 

“Ts it only dark for two hours here?” 

He looked at me like it was the dumbest question anyone had ever 
asked. “Taranis strolls across the sky, chased by his red brother, Hellik, who 
catches him four hours before dark. Taranis dismisses his evil brother with 
the storm before descending to rest for two hours before it happens again.” 

“How long does Taranis take to move across the sky?” Katia asked. 
“And how long before Hellik appears?” 

“You are truly new to this world, like they say,” the dromedarian said. 
“Taranis’s stroll is about twenty-two hours, except in the dark months after 
his brother finally catches and betrays him. Hellik is only in the sky for 
eight hours a day. You don’t wish to be out there when both are in the sky, 
as the heat is unbearable.” 

“So there are two suns it sounds like,” Katia said. “How long until the 
red sun rises?” 

“You have 12 hours,” he said. “But we approach the time of the switch. 
In eleven days is the Red Equinox. That is when Taranis will be caught, and 
he will be gone for but four hours a day. The light of Hellik will wash the 
world for eight hours, but four of them will be the blowing season. Now 
leave me be.” He turned and walked off. 

“Did you understand that?” I asked Katia. 

“I think so,” she said. “Days are 24 hours long like on earth. It’s only 
dark for two hours. The storms come every day at four hours before sunset 
and last two hours. The second sun is up for eight hours, and it gets really 
hot during that time. It sounds like our last three days here will be mostly 
dark, and the storms will last twice as long.” 

“So, he said we have 12 hours until it gets super hot?” I asked. 


“That’s right,” she said. “And we have 18 until the next sandstorm. I 
think.” 

“It’s already super hot,” Donut complained. 

“We better hurry then,” I said. Time was always weird here in the 
dungeon. The dungeon timers were mostly based on earth’s 24-hour clock, 
but the recap episode and some of the spell cooldowns worked on the 
Syndicate Standard day, which was something weird like 30 hours and 17 
and a half seconds. It reminded me of having to deal with both metric and 
imperial measurements, something I’d had to cope with daily before all of 
this. 

After Louis and Firas, we found another group of six crawlers in 
another bar. These guys were a party of half-elves and humans. They were 
all level 21-24, and they all seemed older, mostly in their thirties and 
forties. They were all Archers. All six of them had the exact same class. 
Archer. All six were male. It turned out they were a group of automobile 
salesmen from Helsinki. They worked at neighboring car dealerships and 
had been at lunch when the collapse happened. On the first floor, they’d 
been beset by bow-wielding goblins, and their group had been decimated. 
But after striking back, bow-and-arrow themed weapons had been the only 
thing they received in their loot boxes. They had swords and knives and 
clubs, but the only weapon they all excelled at were the bows. 

Them all choosing the exact same class had to be one of the dumbest 
things I’d seen since entering the dungeon, but knowing how this place 
worked, it probably wasn’t entirely their fault. 

They’d hooked up with a much larger group the previous two floors, but 
they kept their own party. The archer thing had worked well on the third 
floor, but it had severely hindered them on the subway level. The “leader” 
was a stocky man, about 45-years old with greying blonde hair and ice-blue 
eyes. His name was Langley, and he was the highest at level-24. 

These guys were more serious about their predicament despite their 
lower levels. They’d also received the quest to find out what was in the 
Town Hall and had been discussing what to do about it when we’d arrived. I 
talked them into holding off for a bit and to start stepping out of town to 
train themselves up while we walked over to the Bactrian town, which was 
about three miles away on the other side of the dunes. We’d all meet up 
later. 


The town’s door was wide open, and there was no guard when we left. 
Katia added extra mass, rising up and hulking out. She pulled her riot shield 
and wore it on her left arm. 

“Tm not gonna lie,” I said as we left town. “It still freaks me out when 
you change.” 

“That’s because you’re used to being the biggest guy in the room,” she 
said. 

“Maybe,” I said. “Or maybe it’s because it’s fucking weird. How is this 
our lives now?” 

Nobody had an answer for that. 

The sand dunes spread out in all directions. Here on the ground, it was 
hard to see how small this world really was. I knew the Bactrian town 
wasn’t too far, and it was straight ahead. We had to just keep walking, up 
and down through the dunes. The town’s walls would soon appear. 

The Wasteland floated high above, having moved almost directly over 
the desert. A handful of other flying machines circled about, brushing the 
top of the bubble, but none were directly over the “bowl” as we called it. A 
v-formation of birds flocked away in the distance, heading up and over the 
lip of the bowl, diving out of sight and toward the land area. 

Donut released Mongo and rode on his back while we attempted to 
navigate south toward the other town. I was expecting to immediately fall 
waist-deep into sand, but other than the random dunes, it was mostly hard 
packed and no more than an inch or two deep. In some spots, bare stone 
was exposed. We truly were walking atop a massive tomb. I hoped the team 
working their way through it below our feet didn’t do anything stupid that 
caused our world to collapse. 

The ground wasn’t flat. Pd been assuming the up and down of the 
bowl’s surface was caused by the dunes, but the ground itself was stepped 
in places, creating a low, hilly landscape. 

Rusted-out hunks of crashed flying machines dotted the bowl like 
forgotten and scattered toys. There didn’t seem to be anything lootable in 
the old wrecks. 

“There’s a mob coming,” Katia said after about five minutes of walking. 
“Coming in fast.” 

“Irs big,” Donut added. 

“Okay guys,” I said as the dot appeared on my own map. “Counter.” 


Katia moved to my right while Donut leaped to my shoulder. Mongo 
moved to my left just as two Clockwork Mongos appeared. The two 
automatons spread out ahead of us and to the sides as Donut barked orders 
at them. I prepared my Bang Bro spell, but I wanted to wait to see what we 
were facing first. Katia widened, and her crossbow clicked into place over 
her shoulder. 

The monster crested the dune, looked at us, and hissed. 

“Holy shit,” I said as Donut started pelting it with Magic Missiles. A 
moment later, crossbow bolts commenced hitting the creature’s armored 
surface, most of them bouncing off and away. 

The monster was a brown and orange, speckled lizard covered with 
angry, 10-inch spikes. Its long, red tongue darted at us. The thing was the 
size of a goddamned grizzly bear. It hissed again and moved at us, its body 
undulating back and forth like a crocodile running across land. 

Male Thorny Devil. Level 34. 

These pokey fuckers are pretty common in desert-themed worlds. 
They’re big and fast and dumb and angry. Their bodies are covered in 
defensive spikes, which begs the question, how did something so big 
develop such a defense mechanism in the first place? 

These guys tend to have a reverse harem thing going on. Odds are 
good you’ll recognize the queen when you see her. Odds are even better 
she’ll be the last thing you’Il ever see. 

Warning: This is a lizard-class mob. It will inflict 20% more 
damage against you thanks to your Extinction Sigil. That’s what you 
get for killing so many poor, innocent monsters. 

“Outstanding,” I muttered. Katia’s crossbow bolts weren’t doing shit, 
but Donut’s newly-enhanced Magic Missile blasts were taking large chunks 
of health away with each bullseye. The creature stopped at the top of the 
hill, suddenly realizing he might’ve bitten off more than he can chew. He 
started to back up as I unsummoned my gauntlet and loaded a banger 
sphere. I twirled and fired, scoring a hit on the monster’s head. It dealt solid 
damage, almost as much as one of Donut’s missiles. 

Donut held off killing it while we allowed the clockwork Mongos to 
attack. I wanted to see how they’d do. The mob roared defiantly, continuing 
to back up while we kept pace, moving up the small hill. The two dinosaurs 
leaped upon the larger creature, mouths biting at its armored body. It kept 
moving, thrashing its tail and snapping back at the dinosaurs. 


They did no damage. The thorny devil reached around and caught one 
of the Mongos and crunched like a kid chomping onto a lollipop. The 
automaton exploded. The other Mongo screamed and dug at the creature 
with his claws, scrabbling ferociously while the real Mongo howled in 
outrage. Donut cried for him to stay back. The remaining automaton 
managed to open up a tear on the creature’s side, which started gushing 
blood. The monster whipped around, rolling onto its back and to its feet, 
moving astonishingly fast. It chomped on the second Mongo, also causing it 
to blow. 

“Their armor is really thick,” Katia said. She aimed her crossbow at the 
tear in the creature, finally scoring some damage. Its health was deep red 
now, almost gone. Donut could kill him with one more shot, but she held 
off. We needed to experiment with all new mobs, see what worked and what 
didn’t. 

“Stay back,” I said, judging the distance. I loaded a quarter-strength 
hob-lobber as the creature desperately tried to flee back over the hill. I 
tossed the explosive in an arc, sinking it just past the horizon of the hill. 

Bam! 

A red geyser of lizard gore showered, mixed in with a bigger cloud of 
dust. The ground shook with the small explosion. Debris and lizard bits 
smacked into us like rain. The red dot turned to an X. 

“Nice shot,” Katia said. 

“I do like explosions, but why does it always have to be so disgusting?” 
Donut asked from my shoulder. “Sand and blood is a terrible combination.” 
She returned to Mongo’s back and started cleaning herself. 

I grunted. “Those quarter strengths are still a little too strong for close 
combat. That guy was what? Thirty feet away? Any closer, and we’d get 
some shrapnel. I need to make some maybe half that strength.” 

We walked up to investigate the corpse. Mongo whimpered at the sight 
of the clockwork pieces, which started to whiff away. The monster dropped 
twenty gold, a thomy devil liver, and several teeth, which appeared to be 
moderately valuable. It all went into the inventory. 

“Can you see the other town yet?” I asked Katia. 

“Yes,” she said. “Once we left the gates, most of the bowl showed up on 
my map. We should see the town after we crest the next hill.” 

“Do you hear that?” Donut said, suddenly looking up into the sky. She 
pointed up with her paw. “Look, there!” 


“I think we attracted some attention with that explosion,” I said, 
shielding my eyes. “Whoa!” I ducked as the plane rocketed by a hundred 
feet over our heads. 

The flying machine whined loudly, like a flying buzzsaw. Itd come 
from nowhere. The thing must’ve dropped from the Wasteland. It looked 
like a goddamn, open-air, twin-engine biplane, with each engine nestled 
between the wings. I saw the distinctive red hat of the pilot along with a 
second gnome passenger, facing backward. The creature pointed down at us 
and shouted. Two ominous shapes hung under the main fuselage, hanging 
vertically. Both of the egg-shaped objects were smaller than a knock-knock, 
but not by much. Each were attached to the bottom of the plane by a small 
net. 

The plane started to bank back toward us. There was nowhere to hide. 

I tossed three smoke curtains—I only had four left after this—and we 
doubled back the way we’d come so we’d have a small dune between us 
and the plane. The smoke started billowing into the air, twirling in eddies 
and pushing out in all directions. 

The plane lowered as it curved through the air. I could see it well now 
through the smoke. The nose of the plane had a face painted on the side, 
some sort of gray, screaming animal. It looked almost like a jacked-up, 
rabid koala. 

Gnomish Drop Bear. Contraption. 

This is one of the Dirigible Gnome’s earliest fast-attack planes. 
There are only a handful of these still in service. While able to quickly 
reach most targets when drop-launched from home base, the twin 
engines of these early models were famously underpowered. Damaged 
Drop Bears oftentimes had difficulty obtaining enough altitude to reach 
home, even after ditching their payload. This is why most of these 
planes carry rapid-deploying, quick-escape balloons, making them 
sitting targets for enemy aircraft and flak. 

That information is not going to do you any good when you’re 
sitting there on the ground watching this thing barrel at you like a 
robin descending upon a glistening, fat worm. 

Don’t worry, these guys don’t drop bombs. Their standard payload 
is something much more entertaining. 

The twin objects hanging under the plane sure as hell looked like 
bombs, but my explosives handling skill didn’t activate. That did not make 


me feel better. 

The plane leveled out about thirty feet off the ground, lining up for a 
bomb run. We only had seconds. 

“Fuck,” I said, seeing how perfectly the plane was lined up with our 
position. They could either sense us through the smoke, or they’d guessed 
we’d backtrack. I pointed at the ridge to the right of us, back where we’d 
encountered the Thorny Devil, now a good 300 feet away. “Donut.” 

“That’s a little too close, Carl.” 

“Do it,” I said. “We’ll jump behind the hill after. Katia. Make a shield.” 

“On it,” she said, already starting to change shape. She formed into a 
half-shell, something she’d been working on. She faced herself 90 degrees 
away from the plane. I pulled a fused hob-lobber and prepared to light it. I 
also turned to the left. 

The plane’s twin, rotary engines sounded like chainsaws cutting through 
metal, all grinding gears and pistons. They could clearly see our position, 
despite the smoke. We’d discussed this possibility of being attacked by a 
plane and had a contingency, but we hadn’t planned on the smoke bombs 
not working. That was going to be a problem. If we fucked this up, we 
wouldn’t have an escape. 

“Tt’s cast,” Donut said. “Three, two, one.” 

Thwum. 

We teleported away just before the plane dropped one of its two objects 
right on top of us. We appeared atop the small hill. I lit and tossed the hob- 
lobber, trying to lead the plane best I could. 

The dropped object clanged loudly into the ground and bounced once. 
Nothing else happened. 

The full-strength hob-lobber detonated in mid-air, much too low and 
behind the fast-moving airplane, though it was enough to knock me and 
Donut back. It sounded like I’d blasted a shotgun right by my ear. Katia 
didn’t budge. The biplane shuddered in the air. The engine whined even 
louder, and smoke started to trail from one of the two engines. The drop 
bear banked away and started to climb. It was fleeing the fight. 

Jesus, I thought, pulling myself up. My bombs were getting stronger. 

“Carl, that hurt Mongo’s ears,’ Donut said. Mongo croaked in 
agreement. 

“Did you hit it?” Katia asked as she watched the plane go. 


“T don’t think so,” I said, brushing myself off. I kept my eyes on the 
spot where the object had landed. The metallic egg was the size of a 
garbage can. Nothing was happening. Nothing moved. 

“Look, it’s turning into a balloon,” Katia said, still watching the plane. 
“They just dropped the second bomb way over there. It didn’t go off either.” 

“Their engine went out. They’re deploying their escape balloon,” I said. 

“Donut,” I said after a few more seconds of nothing happening. “Do me 
a favor and create some more clockwork Mongos and send them over to 
that bomb thing.” 

She complied. A moment later, the two Mongos ranged forward, 
coming up to the dented bomb as we backed away, putting even more 
distance between us. The metallic egg sat on its side. There was a clear line 
through it, like it was one of those eggs they used to store candy at Easter. If 
it was supposed to pop open, it hadn’t. The two clockwork dinosaurs 
banged on the side of the object while we continued to flee even further. 
After a minute of this, nothing still happened. They continued to jump and 
attack at it. 

The duplicates only lasted ten minutes. After eight minutes passed, 
there was still no indication that the egg actually did anything. 

“Wait,” Katia said a moment later. She’d returned to her she-hulk form, 
but she kept the crossbow out. “I see something on the map now. I think 
they cracked it.” She let out a stream of breath. “It’s a dead boss. I think 
there’s a neighborhood map there.” 

I felt relief. I was expecting something awful, like acid gas or a swarm 
of bees or a magical blast. “Okay, let’s go check it out.” 

We returned to the spot, keeping a wary eye on the distant location of 
the second bomb. The two mongos stood proudly over the egg, which had 
popped upon. They timed out and exploded as we approached. 

A single corpse lay dead inside of the egg. It looked like it had been run 
over by a truck. 

It was a goose. A Canada Goose with the distinctive brown body and 
black head with the white stripe. 

Lootable Corpse. Feral Goose. Level 45 Neighborhood Boss. Killed 
by getting splattered against the ground. 

You are goddamn lucky this thing is dead. 

I kicked at the egg, which was labeled as an Altitude-Based 
Deployment Device — This Item is Broken. “The egg thing didn’t work. 


Look how rusty it is. It didn’t open, and it killed it.” 

“I think you’re right,” Katia said, looking over her shoulder at the 
distant hills. “I’m pretty sure the other one didn’t open either. It bounced a 
few times.” 

Carl: Hey, Mordecai. Do you know what a feral goose is? 

Mordecai: Not specifically, but anything with feral in the name is 
usually bad news. 

I reached down and looted the neighborhood map. Several red dots 
appeared in the area. They were all Thorny Devils. None were moving in 
our direction. I didn’t see the other boss, living or dead. 

I couldn’t help but feel as if we were on rails. There was a storyline 
here, and we were being forced along the path of the narrative. Them 
dropping a boss on us, only for the boss to be dead didn’t seem so much an 
accident as a clue. We were being forced along a scripted path. I did not like 
that one bit. We needed to break away as quickly as possible. 

“Yeah, let’s leave that other egg alone,” I said. “No use tempting fate.” I 
picked up the corpse of the dead goose and stuck it in my inventory. 

“That’s really gross, Carl,” Donut said. 

I now had a tab in my inventory called Mob Morgue. The monsters’ 
bodies were all worthless, but one never knew when something might be 
useful. 

Even though the egg was broken, the mechanism that popped it open 
looked interesting. There was a dial apparatus that I wanted to look at. I 
tried picking up the entire shell, and while it had some heft to it, I lifted it 
easily. I pulled the whole thing into my inventory. 

“Okay, let’s keep moving,” I said. 

Donut was looking up at the sky. “There are more airplanes up there all 
of a sudden. I think we made them mad.” 

“Oh, hell. We need to get our hands on some of those camel rocket 
launchers,” I said. 

“I count eight of them,” Katia said, shading her eyes. “They’re being 
more cautious than the last one.” 

These were different planes than the last. This was an eclectic mix of 
vehicles, though they were too far up there to examine properly. They were 
circling down, almost casually, like a flock of birds. At this rate it’d take 
them several minutes to get here. We would never get to the Bactrian town 
now. We had to run. 


“Change of plans. Back to Hump Town,” I said. “Go, go.” 

Donut and Mongo took off, heading back to the city as we followed and 
started to run. 

I looked up over my shoulder as we ran. I caught sight of the drop bear, 
which was continuing to rise into the sky. A separate airship deployed from 
the Wasteland, on its way to intercept. 

“Katia, you still have those engine parts in your inventory? From that 
interdiction cart we disassembled on the last floor?” 

“I do,” she said, huffing as we ran. We’d taken apart one of the smaller 
rail carts from the previous floor. I had most of the cart’s body in my 
inventory. Katia had taken the mechanical parts. Her Earth Hobby potion 
gave her an enormous wealth of knowledge regarding engines. 

“Good,” I said. “We need to build ourselves a dune buggy. And fast. We 
don’t have time for this shit. They’re making it so we can’t get to the other 
town while the weather is good. They want us out here while it’s super-hot, 
dark, or during the storm. I don’t want to do any of those.” 

The walls of Hump Town loomed. The swooping airships stopped their 
descent, though they kept a holding pattern a thousand feet up. 

“We’ll need defenses,” I added. “You work on the engine, and PI come 
up with an anti-aircraft system.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


IT DIDN’T TAKE LONG TO BUILD THE RICKETY, COMPARTMENTAL VEHICLE. 
Thanks to the engineering and metalworking benches, I could fabricate 
anything I needed in minutes. The second-level engineering table was great 
for complicated designs that required multiple objects put together, like the 
front suspension system and drive shaft. The level two metalworking table 
allowed me to view the tensile strength and load limits, and the interface 
had more shaping options. Mordecai said once we got that table up to level 
three, we would be able to melt down some of the less valuable items we 
came across and reforge them into stronger, more dense alloys, which 
would allow me to make precise explosive spheres instead of relying on 
expensive hob-lobbers. 

Katia and I worked on the first part of the design while Donut and 
Mordecai went shopping. But before they left, Donut took one look at the 
vehicle-in-progress and said, “I’ve decided to name it the Royal Chariot.” 
She flipped her tail and exited the room astride Mongo, following 
Mordecai. 

“What the hell, man,” I said as the tooltip popped up over the unfinished 
vehicle. It didn’t yet have a description, but the system suddenly labeled it 
The Royal Chariot - Contraption. 

The “chariot” was nothing more than a glorified, oversized ATV with an 
optional wagon. With the back cart attached, the contraption reminded me 
of the MOAB design we had fashioned to fight the rage elemental, but big 
enough to carry all of us. The most difficult part of the chariot was the tire 
design. We had some random rubber that I could shape into tires at the 
engineering table using my tools, but not nearly enough for four. I also had 


several black discs the goblins used for wheels on their copper choppers, 
but they had no real tread on them and weren’t very wide. We had to be able 
to traverse the sand dunes and deal with the hills. We really needed actual, 
bouncy tires. Mordecai could make the materials at his alchemy table, but it 
would take time. Time we didn’t have. 

So instead, our first attempt was with metal tires. I made them as 
lightweight as possible, but after some experimentation, we realized they 
simply weren’t feasible. They were still too heavy, making the suspension 
system useless. The single-gear, magical train cart engine was pretty darn 
powerful, but I soon realized the design would still end up with us bogged 
helplessly down in the sand, even if we tried to avoid the bigger dunes. The 
whole purpose of this was to have something to travel around the bowl as 
quickly and efficiently as possible. 

We solved this by using the engineering table to fashion a wide, 
treadmill track, like on the back of a snowmobile. The dromedarians used 
something similar. They had several tracked carts zipping around town. We 
still utilized two, steerable wheels in the front, which I was able to make out 
of rubber. The belt mechanism required multiple, toothed wheels of specific 
sizes, plus the tracks themselves. We’d eventually coat the treads with 
rubber, too, if this worked. Katia sketched it all out as we stood side-by-side 
at the engineering table. It only took about two hours to put together a 
working vehicle once we had the design. It was crude, and it was still 
heavier than I wanted. Plus I worried about the vehicle’s ability to handle 
deep sand. 

But the goddamned thing worked. 

The whole contraption without the cart was pretty small, maybe about 
twice the size of the long-lost copper chopper. The vehicle sat low and was 
just wide and strong enough for hulk-version Katia to sit up front with me 
right behind her in a second seat, raised. She looked a little ridiculous 
astride the thing, like an adult sitting on a kid’s sized ATV. 

We most definitely could have made it larger and safer, but this design 
allowed me to lift it and stick it into my inventory. Sort of. We had to break 
it apart into two pieces. But we successfully built a vehicle that was both 
portable and big enough to handle the three of us. Katia wouldn’t be able to 
hold as much mass as I liked, but this thing was mostly built for speed. It 
was not a tank. It wasn’t for protection. 

For now. 


Katia and I discussed using the chariot’s body as a chassis for a much- 
larger, more flexible vehicle. One where she was the vehicle’s body. But she 
wasn’t fully onboard with the idea. Not yet. Plus, I made the mistake of 
suggesting we start calling her “Katia Prime,” and she didn’t find it nearly 
as amusing as I did. 

After another half-hour tweaking the design of the chariot, we were 
ready for a quick field test. 

“If we weren’t worried about storing it, I think two treads and no wheels 
at all might work better,” Katia said, admiring our work. 

I grunted in agreement. “You’re not wrong. But we’re already going 
overboard here, and we’ve already wasted too much time. Anyway, you’re 
really good at this. I think you missed your calling.” 

She waved at the track mechanism underneath the vehicle. “This is all 
thanks to that earth hobby potion,” she said. “Like I was sitting here, 
wondering how the heck we were going to put this thing together, and 
suddenly it was there. Do you think the aliens, you know, the ones not in 
the dungeon, can just teach themselves stuff like this on demand? Like in 
that Matrix movie? Like one guy out there can just take a few potions, and 
he’s suddenly a super genius in kung fu and piloting helicopters?” 

“I don’t see why not,” I said. I bent down and unfastened two bolts. I 
strained, picking up the back half of the chariot. It disappeared into my 
inventory. “We don’t really know enough about the outside universe.” 

“That seems like it would have such a huge impact on society. If 
anybody can be an expert in anything, what does that even mean? It doesn’t 
make sense to me how there’s such... I don’t know, cruelty.” 

“Its probably crazy expensive,” I said, moving to the front half of the 
Chariot. I pulled it into my inventory. “So only the ultra-rich can use it. 
Maybe it’s like plastic surgery. Only some people can afford it, and there 
are probably limits. Like if you do it too much, bad stuff happens.” 

“Maybe,” she said. “I can’t stop thinking about it. It’s so... odd. I know 
how these engines and all the related mechanical parts work, but the 
knowledge is unnatural. I’m not sure how to explain it. It’s like I know it, 
but I don’t know, know it. Like maybe it’s getting downloaded into my 
brain on demand. Like I’m tapped directly into Wikipedia.” 

“That is weird. My cesta punta skill translates pretty well into action, 
but it’s mostly muscle stuff. So maybe it’s different. We still don’t know 
what Donut’s earth hobby skill is. It’s something really strange. 


Scutelliphily. I’ve asked a hundred people, and nobody knows what the hell 
it is.” 

We headed outside, passing multiple dromedarians as we exited the city. 
Mordecai and Donut were nearby, and they said they’d be done 
“negotiating” in a bit. We didn’t want to go far, so we set up the cart just 
outside the gate. 

It took us about five minutes to assemble the vehicle, which was much 
too long. We’d have to work on it. 

We stepped back and admired our work. A new description popped up. 

Tracked All-Terrain Suicide Machine. The Royal Chariot — 
Contraption. 

If a snowmobile got drunk on moonshine and had a sweaty, ill- 
advised night with a hillbilly’s coon-hunting ATV, this oversized birth 
defect of a vehicle would be the result. Quickly traverses through both 
sand and snow. Don’t worry about the lack of roll cage or the grossly- 
misplaced center of gravity, or the fact this thing will do an impressive 
impersonation of a catapult the moment it hits a rock. The most 
important part is that it looks kind of badass. 

“Whoa,” Katia said. “I just got an achievement for inventing something. 
That description is kind of worrying.” 

“The system naming it means they think the design has at least some 
merit.” 

I was making that up, but it sounded good. All I really wanted to do was 
get from point A to B quickly. I looked at the machine dubiously. “Let’s see 
how much of a deathtrap this really is.” 

The dunes closer to the wall of the bowl were much more steep and 
were perfect for testing. The dromedarian waster patrol kept the town’s 
outskirts mob free, and the air was clear. I ran up the closest hill just to 
make sure I wouldn’t sink through like with snow. 

I stood at the top and waved. Katia started the vehicle and moved, 
slowly easing the chariot up the dune. It quickly and quietly ascended. The 
engine was completely silent. Only the tracks themselves made any noise. 
You couldn’t even tell the thing was running until she eased the throttle 
forward. She pulled it next to me. 

“Tt works,” she said. “I can tell it’ll go pretty fast. We have to be careful 
with turns. I’m worried about rolling it. Maybe we should build a cage.” 


The cart’s passage kicked up a huge plume of dust even though she’d 
only driven it about a hundred feet. I looked nervously up into the air. The 
Wasteland was near the edge of the bowl’s lip on the opposite side. 
Mordecai and Donut had just spent some time talking with the locals, and 
they learned that the gnome fortress kept to a pretty specific schedule. It 
was usually directly over the bowl except during the daily sand storm, when 
it moved to the edge of the bubble, parking itself over the water. After the 
storms were done, it’d spend the next few hours moving back into position. 
By the time the two-hour “night” was over, the fortress would be back in 
place several thousand feet over the center of the bowl. 

We still had over 12 hours before the sandstorm was due to start, which 
meant the airship was not where it was supposed to be. 

“The Wasteland isn’t really doing what Mordecai claimed it would,” I 
said. 

Katia’s face turned to the sky. “Yeah, you’re right. It looks like it’s 
headed out to the ocean now. They must have misunderstood its schedule.” 

Three flares rose into the air. Two red and one white. All three hung in 
the sky, crackling. They’d come from the south, in the general area of the 
Bactrian village. 

That’s when I realized the Wasteland was directly over the other village. 
From behind and within Hump Town, shouting rose. A high-pitched, 
wailing siren suddenly filled the air. The siren was strangely urgent in its 
call, like the wailing of a child. Behind and above, on the corrugated metal 
town wall, the sheet covering one of the large boxes pulled away. Two of 
the camel creatures stepped into box. 

“Its an anti-aircraft gun,” I said. It had four barrels, turned to the sky. 

The whoosh of rockets rose into the air behind us. It was three more 
flares, this time fired from within town. I looked up and saw these three 
were red. 

“T wonder what the colors mean,” Katia said. 

“Let’s get back into town,” I said, jumping onto the back of the chariot. 
My seat was higher than hers and could swivel, allowing me to see over her 
shoulder. Once Mordecai and Donut returned, I’d build the Chariot’s 
defenses. Katia drove down the hill. The vehicle seemed pretty steady to 
me. It continued to raise a huge plume of dust. I wondered if there was a 
way to better disguise our passage. Probably not. 


We stopped outside the gate and started to quickly disassemble the 
vehicle. When we were done, I turned one last time to look south. 
And that’s when the bombs started to fall on the distant town. 


“If they were in safe rooms, they’ ll be okay,” Mordecai said as we waited 
for the recap episode to start. They’d managed to purchase two dromedarian 
bazooka tubes and ten rocket-propelled missiles. These were straight, line- 
of-sight missiles. The camels absolutely refused to sell their guided ones. 
Pd already taken one apart and given the chemical drive mechanism to 
Mordecai so he could reverse-engineer it. He said he was certain now that 
he knew how it worked. He could make me some components that I could 
use to manufacture my own rockets at my sapper’s table. They wouldn’t 
pack as much punch as I’d like, but their range would be amazing. And 
once I added a surefire to some of them, I’d have actual guided missiles. 

“If the whole town blows up, the safe rooms really are safe?” Katia 
asked. 

“Yes,” Mordecai said. “But not all bars are true saferooms. Generally if 
the proprietor isn’t a Bopca, then there’s like a 50/50 chance. The Toe is not 
a real saferoom, but as long as we’re in the personal space, we’ll be fine. I 
think there might only be one or two other places in town that’ll protect 
crawlers. 

I remembered Growler Gary from the last floor. His bar had not been 
safe for him. 

“So the NPCs will be safe if they’re in the correct bars?” I asked. 

From the sheer amount of explosives dropped from the Wasteland, there 
was no way anything was left in the town. 

“Well, it’s actually complicated,” Mordecai said. “Certain NPCs will be 
safe. I would be safe if I was in a saferoom. The whole room would be 
protected. If there aren’t any crawlers or basically any former-crawler or 
off-world NPCs in the room, the room is probably destroyed. There are 
additional rules if there’s only one saferoom in an area, but it’s pretty 
complicated stuff. The long and short of it is, Borant-owned NPCs are not 
protected by the saferoom system if they’re the only one there. They’re only 
protected if you are there.” 


“Pm not sure I understand,” I said. “You’re saying all the NPCs are 
probably dead unless they were in a bar with crawlers? So saferooms are 
only ‘safe’ if a crawler is inside?” 

He shrugged. “Pretty much, yeah. Again, there are some other rules. 
The manual on saferoom procedures is like a phonebook.” 

“What about that other thing we were talking about? With the primary 
and secondary zones?” 

“That’s different,” he said, shooting me a warning glare. “That doesn’t 
directly impact crawlers or NPCs at all.” 

I sighed. There was still just so much I didn’t understand. And you 
probably know more than 90% of the other crawlers. 

“So there might be a bar that’s just sitting there in the middle of the 
destroyed town?” 

“That’s right,” Mordecai said. “Saferooms are protected spaces. That’s 
the point. Sometimes during quests and special events, the system prevents 
access to them, as you’ve seen. But if this town gets that same treatment 
from the gnomes, just come in here, and yov’ll be protected.” 

“I hope the poor people in the other town knew all this stuff,’ Donut 
said. She sat on the counter eating a can of Fancy Feast from the food 
synthesizer. I could tell by the look on her face that she was not pleased. 
Mongo couldn’t get food from the boxes, so we still had to purchase it for 
him. But tonight he received a pet biscuit. 

We still didn’t know why the gnomes had blown the Bactrian town to 
hell. From what I gathered based on the frantic activity by the 
dromedarians, they didn’t know either. We kept sticking our heads out to 
keep track of the ponderous fortress’s location. So far, it hadn’t made a 
move in our direction. 

The recap show started. It opened with what looked like a giant sheet of 
bubble wrap. The camera quickly panned over it, showing bubble after 
bubble. Snowstorms, hurricanes, thick jungles, swamps, mountains, 
labyrinths, and more flashed by on screen. 

But before it moved to the fifth floor, we watched multiple scenes from 
the end of the Iron Tangle. We watched Miriam Dom cast a spell that 
knocked out a giant province boss. The debuff only lasted a few seconds, 
but in that moment, Prepotente hit it with a half of a dozen different potions 
and spells in a row, causing its unconsciousness to jump from ten seconds 
to five hours. 


“Genius,” Mordecai said, watching the goat work. “He’s killing it with 
stacking debuffs.” 

But they didn’t manage to kill the province boss. On the screen, Quan 
Ch zipped into the room from out of nowhere. He shot the boss with a blue 
magical bolt, causing it to wake up. The goat team had to flee, with 
Prepotente screaming he was going to kill Quan. Quan remained in the 
room, shot the boss a few times, enough to get its health down halfway, but 
after the thing swung at him, he ran off. 

“He could’ve killed it,” Donut said. “He ran away like a wuss. He’s a 
menace!” 

“That robe of his is something else,” Mordecai said. “It looks like it 
gives flight and the Shield spell and probably more. I’m not certain what the 
blue energy bolt is. I think it might be Disrupter, which is a rare but strong 
spell. It’s similar to Donut’s Magic Missile, but it is good for blowing holes 
in things. Plus it has splash damage and has a stun effect. The only problem 
is its short range.” 

“That should be ours,” Donut grumbled. 

Next, they showed my fight with Grull. They said Grull was being 
controlled by Prince Maestro, but it was only a quick mention, and they 
didn’t focus on him. Instead, they showed the teamwork of Elle, Donut, 
Katia, plus Li Jun’s team. They portrayed the train falling through the portal 
into the abyss, but they did not show Fire Brandy or Tizquick the dwarf at 
the controls. Instead, they switched it back to me, showing the experience 
points get showered onto me as the wall monitors all died and the soul 
crystals across the tangle detonated, opening up the floor to escape. 

Mordecai gave me an appraising look afterward. “You know you’re 
crazy, right?” 

I nodded. 

The show abruptly changed, becoming a tribute to the life of the crawler 
Ifechi. 

“So it was Ifechi who died,” I said as they showed the African man 
hesitantly enter the dungeon. “He was a healer. Poor guy.” 

Ifechi entered the dungeon with a group of other men, all soldiers, all 
wielding AK-47s. Ifechi was the only one who wasn’t armed. He was also 
dressed differently than the others, wearing a bright red shirt with a vest. He 
carried a medical bag over his shoulder with the familiar Red Cross logo. 


“Not a guy,” Katia said suddenly, peering closely at the screen. “Ifechi 
was a woman.” 

“What?” I said. “Are you sure? How can you tell?” The crawler looked 
like a dude to me. He was rail thin, smaller than the others. Everything 
about him seemed timid and drawn-in, afraid. He kept his head shaved. Not 
that I was an expert, nor did it really matter, but he looked like a bloke to 
me. 

“Call it a super power. I can tell.” 

We watched as Ifechi’s former team, Le Mouvement, got zeroed out by 
a translucent jelly boss the size of a house. From there, Ifechi, now all 
alone, stumbled through the dungeon, eventually meeting up with Florin. 
Florin, as a human, had kind of a mysterious background. He said he was 
from France, but he had an Australian accent. He was in Africa when it all 
went down. They didn’t really give the guy’s full story, but he mentioned 
something about “private security.” I knew what that really meant. He was a 
mercenary of some sort. He’d also come into the dungeon armed to the 
teeth, but he now relied solely on his automatic shotgun, which appeared to 
be heavily modified even before he received the magical, unlimited-ammo 
upgrade. Ifechi eventually chose a healer class, and Florin picked the 
crocodilian race. They had been separated when they hit the third floor, but 
they quickly found one another. It showed them hugging and sobbing as 
they reunited. 

They were more than just friends, I realized. 

Florin’s weapon was devastating to most of the mobs, and Ifechi, 
despite being a healer, had an attack so effective, so unique, I could see how 
the two had earned spots in the top ten. It was a staff that summoned and 
flung leeches. A lot of leeches. They’d cover the mob, sucking at its fluids, 
killing it in seconds. Afterward, the wriggling leeches would be filled with 
blood and other fluids from the dead mobs, and they could be eaten, giving 
a wide array of buffs. Florin would gobble them right up, getting 
temporarily stronger. It was disgusting, 

“Fascinating,” Mordecai said. “I haven’t seen anything like that in a 
very long time. I thought they’d removed that spell. Crocodilians have the 
ability to triple the effectiveness of any buffs they receive from eating 
creatures. He probably chose that race just because of her staff.” 

And then, finally, we saw the manner of Ifechi’s death. 


The two were part of a group that had moved to one of the former ghoul 
Stations after the stairwell station had opened. A line had formed at the 
Stairs, and people were quickly descending. The station was almost empty. 
Everything was moving nice and orderly. 

And then Lucia Mar entered the room. 

The number one crawler strolled into the station like she owned the 
place, flanked by her two dogs, Cici and Gustavo 3. Lucia was in her 
beautiful, magic-focused form. Her Lajabless species made it so she spent 
half the day as the beautiful woman. The rest of the day she spent as a 
strong, melee-focused, female version of Skeletor. The dwindling crowd 
parted as the child-turned-woman walked through the room, her raven hair 
sparkling. She walked with a slight limp due to her goat leg. She had a mess 
of boss kills and player-killer skulls over her head. 

Cici the rottweiler had also undergone a transformation, having grown 
to be almost twice the size of the other dog. The larger dog growled at a 
random crawler, who scattered back. 

Lucia paused, looking about the room. The remaining crawlers 
scrambled at their chance to hit the stairwell. A glut formed at the exit. 

Florin and Ifechi approached Lucia, apparently in an attempt to say 
hello. 

“No. This is mine,” Lucia said, hugging herself. The two dogs growled. 

“All right, mate,” Florin said, backing off, arms raised. He turned away 
and muttered “crazy bitch,” under his breath. 

Lucia did not hesitate. She grabbed the closest crawler, a man about 18 
years old who was desperately trying not to be seen. She picked him up like 
he weighed nothing and literally threw the man at Florin. The poor guy 
wailed as he was tossed, which caused Florin to jump out of the way. The 
thrown man hit the ground, bounced once, and crashed against the far wall, 
unconscious. 

“What the hell?” Florin shouted as Ifechi rushed to the injured man. 
“Lady, you’re not right in the head. We’re all friends here.” 

“There is nothing wrong with my head,” Lucia Mar said, sounding 
strangely offended. “Why would you say that?” She pointed at Ifechi, who 
was shoving something into the mouth of the unconscious man. “Speak no 
more, or there will be something wrong with your girlfriend’s head.” 

“Girlfriend. Told you,” Katia said, as we watched, transfixed. 

“Jesus,” I said. “And I thought the goat was crazy.” 


“Prepotente is crazy, Carl,” Donut said. “You’re crazy, too. Lucia is 
something different. She’s insane.” 

I couldn’t argue with that. 

Florin backed away, not saying anything. I could tell the guy was smart. 
He recognized her insanity. The last of the crawlers pushed their way to the 
stairs, leaving just the three of them plus the injured crawler. And the dogs. 

“That’s sad,” Donut said. 

“What?” I asked. 

“Nobody stayed behind for that poor guy Lucia threw across the room. 
Only Ifechi helped him.” 

I reached up and patted Donut’s head. The cat’s entire body was taut as 
she watched the screen. 

Florin said nothing as he walked backward, keeping his eyes on Lucia. 
He reached to tap Ifechi on the shoulder and signaled for her to proceed 
toward the stairs. She nodded. The injured man sat up, rubbing his head. He 
gave a terrified glance at Lucia and scrambled toward the stairwell. Gustavo 
—the regular-sized rottweiler—moved to block his access. Lightning 
sparkled in the dog’s mouth as he growled. 

“What did you say?” Lucia snarled at the fleeing boy. “What did you 
say about my papa?” Gustavo took a menacing step toward him. 

“What?” he asked. “I... I don’t know what you’re talking about.” 

“He didn’t say anything about your father, you right cunt,” Florin said, 
distracting her. “But if I could say something to him, it’d probably be, quit 
dropping your babies on their heads. It makes them a touch daffy.” He 
pulled Ifechi up. “Come on, Ife. To the stairs.” 

“Don’t take shit from anyone. It’s just a game. It’s not real,” Lucia said. 
She was talking to someone over her shoulder. Someone who wasn’t there. 

Ifechi surreptitiously cast a spell by waving her hand. It looked like a 
protection spell of some sort. She cast it twice. Once on Florin and once on 
the other crawler, leaving herself unprotected. 

“Why did you talk,” Lucia said to Florin. She sounded curious, her head 
cocked to the side. “I said I would make your girlfriend’s head not right if 
you talked.” 

“We don’t want any trouble,” Florin said, edging his way toward the 
stairwell. 

“That’s what they always say,” Lucia said, moving sideways to block 
the exit. She clicked her teeth. 


Everything that happened next took place over the course of ten 
seconds. 

Cici the giant rottweiler rushed at Florin, launching herself at him. 
Gustavo did the same, jumping over the other hapless crawler and rocketing 
toward the crocodilian. The dog opened his mouth, as if ready to shoot 
lightning from it. 

Bam, bam, bam. 

Florin’s shotgun was suddenly in his hand, and he fired three blasts so 
quickly that I didn’t even see the movement. He sent one shell at Lucia, one 
at Cici, and one at Gustavo, in that order. 

Lucia and the two dogs all flew backward. Lightning misfired from 
Gustavo, blasting off the ceiling. Florin continued to blast all three in turn. 
Bam, bam, bam. He took a step toward them. Bam, bam, bam. 

Next to me, Mordecai groaned. Katia gasped. And then I saw what they 
saw. 

Ifechi was leaned up against the chamber wall. Her head was gone. The 
splatter of blood and brains painted the stone. 

“What...” I began. Mordecai held up his wing for me to be silent. 

That fourth crawler cast a spell as he scrambled toward the stairwell. It 
turned the floor of the room to ice. He rushed down the stairs and 
disappeared. 

Lucia sat up, not injured at all. She grinned at Florin. 

“I told you I’d do it,” she said. 

“No,” Mordecai said. “No, no, no.” 

Florin fired once more, right into the temple of Lucia Mar. 

They both flew back this time, spinning and turning like pinballs on the 
floor of ice. 

Lucia Mar ricocheted off the wall as she sat up, again uninjured. She 
cackled with laughter, laughter that abruptly turned to a strangled cry as she 
continued her momentum and plunged into the stairwell and disappeared. 
She crashed loudly to the bottom of the stairs. 

Both of the dogs whimpered as they tried to get up, also uninjured. They 
scrambled, their feet unable to purchase on the slippery ground. They spun 
and turned and bounced off one another. They clambered, howling and 
whimpering as they moved to follow Lucia Mar onto the stairwell. 

If it wasn’t so horrifying, it would’ve been hilarious. 


Florin sat up. His temple and neck was covered in blood, his health 
mostly gone. He shook his head, confused. 

And only then did he notice that Ifechi was dead. He looked at her, 
bewildered, not understanding what had just happened. 

“No,” he said, seeing her body against the wall. “No, Ife, no.” 

That’s when I noticed the shining, golden skull over Florin’s head. He 
dropped his gun, put an arm over his crocodile eyes, and he started to wail. 

The show cut away to the smiling host, breathlessly starting to explain 
the fifth floor. 

“What the fuck did I just watch?” I asked as the show went on. 

“Lucia appears to have access to a very powerful spell,” Mordecai said. 
“It probably comes from something she’s wearing. It usually has a long 
cooldown, but she either has multiples of the spell, or she has somehow 
defeated the cooldown problem. Either way, it’s ridiculously broken. It’s no 
wonder she’s so strong.” 

“What’s the spell?” I asked. 

“Rubber, most likely. It’s similar to your damage reflect and Donut’s 
love vampire. When she’d cast it, it also applied to her two pets. So it’s at 
least level ten. I bet it’s closer to 15. It reduces a high percentage of 
incoming damage and reflects it to a target of your choosing. She’d cast it 
directly on Ifechi’s head. So when Florin shot Lucia and the dogs, he was 
literally shooting his partner in the head. And after she was dead, Lucia cast 
the spell again, this time on Florin.” 

“They gave him credit for the kill,” Katia said. “That’s awful. It doesn’t 
seem right.” 

“Tt’s not. That’s the dungeon being a dick,” I said. 

“Dreadful. Just dreadful. How did Florin survive shooting himself in the 
head?” Donut asked. 

“Tt was that protection spell,” I said. “Ifechi cast it on him and the other 
guy, but not on herself.” 

“Certain protection spells can’t be cast on yourself,” Mordecai said. “It 
takes a special type of person to want to use and train such enchantments.” 

I thought of Imani, who was also a healer. She would have done the 
same thing in this situation. 

Goddamnit. Every time I saw or heard of a crawler killing one of their 
own, it just made me angrier. 

You will not break me. Fuck you all. I will break you. 


I took a deep breath. “That kid’s brain is scrambled,” I said finally. 
“Donut is right. She’s literally insane. She’s talking to phantoms and 
hearing things.” 

“Poor thing,” Katia said. “But she needs to be dealt with.” 

“I agree,” I said. “We need to put her down.” 

“T call dibs on the dogs,” Donut said. 

Mordecai: Here’s the good news. If she does use that Rubber spell, it 
has a vulnerability. A big one. They’d been editing out her using the 
spell until now. There’s a reason for that. They might want her killed. 

Carl: Okay. We’ll talk about it later. But if she’s not in our bubble, 
it doesn’t really matter. We gotta survive this place first. 

From there, they portrayed multiple crawlers entering the warehouse 
and spinning the wheels. Lucia Mar was given the land quadrant in a bubble 
that was designed similarly to our own, but it was a massive, stepped 
pyramid in the center. And the weather was cold and covered in ice. I 
laughed at that. Prepotente and Miriam Dom landed on the air quadrant of a 
bubble that was like a giant cave with rock growing along the interior wall 
of the sphere. Their domain was nothing more than a shelf of rock that 
ringed the interior wall. Their target was a nest of spiders that hung from 
the ceiling, thousands of feet into the air. 

“Jesus,” I said. “They’re just as fucked as we are.” 

Florin entered his room completely defeated. He sat down in the corner 
of the warehouse and did not spin anything. He had Ifechi’s leech staff, 
which he laid across his lap. He leaned his head against the wall and went 
to sleep right there. 

It portrayed a dozen more shots of people spinning and landing on a 
wide assortment of quadrants. 

The show ended with the promise of more bloodshed and more hilarious 
outtakes of us silly crawlers struggling to survive. I pictured myself 
punching the host over and over until his head caved in. 

The show ended, and the new top 10 populated on the board. 

1. Lucia Mar — Lajabless — Black Inquisitor General — Level 38 — 
1,000,000 (x2) 

2. Carl — Primal — Compensated Anarchist — Level 41 — 500,000 (x2) 

3. Prepotente — Caprid — Forsaken Aerialist — Level 35 — 400,000 
(x2) 

4. Donut — Cat — Former Child Actor — Level 33 — 300,000 (x2) 


5. Quan Ch —- Half Elf — Imperial Security Trooper — Level 43 — 
200,000 (x2) 

6. Dmitri and Maxim Popov — Nodling — Illusionist and Bogatyr — 
Level 33 — 100,000 (x2) 

7. Miriam Dom — Human — Shepherd — Level 31 — 100,000 (x2) 

8. Elle McGib — Frost Maiden — Blizzardmancer — Level 33 — 
100,000 

9. Bogdon Ro — Human — Legatus — Level 31 — 100,000 

10. Florin — Crocodilian — Shotgun Messenger — Level 33 — 100,000 
(x2) 

“Carl! You’re number two! Katia! You fell off the list! This is 
outrageous! You were a superstar.” 

“Thank god,” Katia said. She looked genuinely relieved. 

“Hey,” Donut said. “Wait a second. Why didn’t I go up? We’re 
separated. This is not acceptable, Carl.” 

I patted her on the head while she grumbled, swishing her tail angrily. 

“Also, why did Florin lower so much?” Donut asked a moment later. 
“That was so sad, and they’re punishing him for it.” 

“I bet he hasn’t moved since he went down the stairs. He’s probably still 
sitting in that room where you spin the wheels. His PR agent is probably 
losing her shit,” I said. “Elle is back on the list, but her bounty didn’t 
double.” 

“She wasn’t in the top ten when the floor ended,” Mordecai said. 

Quan Ch had hit level 43, making him the highest, though I had no idea 
why or how. The asshole fled any fight that looked like it might be difficult. 
Hopefully he was using his powers this floor to get everyone in his bubble 
to safety. 

I shuddered, thinking of the poor bastards stuck with Lucia Mar. The 
kid had an obvious mental illness. If we were someplace else, my first 
thought would be to lock her up and put her someplace where she could get 
the treatment she obviously needed. 

But we weren’t someplace else, and she was killing people. Good 
people. She had to be taken care of. 

I didn’t want to admit it, but part of me was happy that there was 
nothing I could do about that right now. We only had a limited number of 
fellow crawlers to deal with on this level. 

That shit weighs down on you after a while, I thought. 


OceanofPDF.com 


THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME AND WENT. THERE WAS NOTHING OF 
significance. The announcer spoke of the doubling of bounties for those 
who’d been on the list. She reminded us that sponsorship bidding was 
underway. There was a warning that just because we were outside that we 
shouldn’t use the big, wide world as a bathroom and that there were 
restrooms in the towns. But if we had to go while we were outside, they 
wouldn’t penalize us. We needed to announce that we were going to the 
bathroom out loud, wait five seconds, and then do our business. The idea 
was so ridiculous, it made me want to laugh. 

All of us, including Mordecai, exited the personal space and walked into 
the Toe to find the other crawlers waiting for us. Louis and Firas, who were 
still drunk, plus Langley and the other five car salesmen-turned-archers all 
sat at the bar. The archer guys had all leveled one or two times each since 
we’d last talked. All eight crawlers looked at me expectantly. 

Juice Box the changeling prostitute sat on Louis’s lap. She’d 
transformed into something... odd. Like a rodent/human hybrid, but with 
orange hair and a purple jumpsuit. Whatever it was, the resulting creature 
looked like Chuck E. Cheese in drag. 

I sighed. 

Mordecai: That changeling is a lot more powerful than she looks. 
It’s very odd. Do you see how easily she’s altering herself? It’s almost 
like she’s a doppelganger. 

I examined Juice Box. The note over her head said she was a Ratkin 
Brood Mother Attendant, but as I watched, she turned more mouse-like, 
and it switched to Mouser Dame. 


Carl: Are you sure she’s not a doppelganger? 

Mordecai: Yes, I’m sure. 

Carl: Do you guys have some sort of changeling spidey-sense or 
something? 

Mordecai: You can see it in how she changes. She’s switching to the 
race and then altering the appearance to make it look like whatever the 
hell they’re requesting. It’s like dressing up stock photos instead of 
drawing something from scratch. Even if I had all my changeling 
abilities and wasn’t at half power, I still wouldn’t be able to do that. 
There are a lot of creatures who mimic others, and you can usually tell 
what it is based on the way they change. Doppelgangers like Katia have 
to form themselves like clay. Mimics do the same thing, though the 
change comes from the mouth and moves outward. Adult changelings 
turn into a generic version of the race and then alter their appearance 
from there. Illusionists fade into existence. 

Carl: What about the Valtay? I’ve been thinking about that a lot 
lately. 

Mordecai: That’s something different. Brain worms aren’t 
mimicking something. They’re taking over their actual bodies. The 
Valtay are a type of creature called a Gondii. They reactivate dead 
bodies as long as they enter within hours of death. Gondii can read old 
memories and keep the bodies running for centuries. There are 
Intellect Hunters who do the same thing, but the bodies start to rot 
almost immediately, and they are always hopping from body to body. 
Then there’s something called an Infiltrator. They are much more 
insidious. But none of those things are shapeshifters like Miss Juice Box 
here. 

Carl: She can’t be too strong. She’s only level 17. 

Mordecai: That’s misleading. Regular crawlers who become 
changelings can only shift once every ten minutes. Shifting on demand 
is a skill unique to the race. She is easily the equivalent of level 15 in the 
Race Shifter Skill, and I’m willing to bet every one of these prostitutes 
in town is the same. A changeling who can switch that quickly is very 
dangerous. Remember, unlike doppelgangers, changelings gain some of 
the abilities of the race they’re mimicking. She can turn into a gorgon 
at the snap of the finger and hit you with a petrify spell, then switch to 
a rocksling to shatter your stone body into dust, and then turn to a 


forge ogre and take that dust and pressurize it enough to make it a 
diamond. All before you could say “Ouch.” 

Carl: Can she turn into a storm giant or something? Something like 
Grull? 

Mordecai: No. There are mass limits, but it’s not nearly as strict as 
what Katia has to deal with. There are lots of weird, complicated rules. 
The stronger the monster they emulate, the lower the chance of being 
at full power. But there are still plenty of things she can turn into that 
will ruin your day. 

Carl: So what you’re telling me is to be nice to Juice Box. 

Mordecai: Yes. And all the other prostitutes. Be polite. And make 
sure all these scrubs understand it, too. Especially that Louis idiot. 

I realized everyone was staring at me, so I started talking. 

“There may be others in this quadrant, but if they’re alive, they 
probably just got their bell rung pretty bad,” I said. “So it might be just us 
dealing with that fortress.” I gave a worried glance at the dromedarian 
barkeep, who was watching us with interest. He was a pleasant enough guy, 
unlike most of the other camels. He’d given both Donut and Mongo treats, 
happily patting them on the head. Mongo was practically ready to leave us 
for him. However, this next part of the conversation involved doing 
something the camels would not like. We had to get out of his earshot. 

“But first, we’re all going to get a tour of our personal space. We can 
talk more comfortably in there.” 

“Tt’s called the Royal Palace of Princess Donut!” Donut added. 

“Louis, look, it’s that cat again from the television,” Firas said. 

I realized that while the two men had been drunk the first time we met 
them, they’d been mostly coherent and aware of their surroundings. In the 
nine hours since we’d last spoken, it appeared they’d managed to get 
themselves even more plastered. My initial instinct was to just kick them 
out of the Toe, but I was worried they’d do something extra stupid. Like 
cause the town to get obliterated like the other one. I needed to keep an eye 
on them until we figured out the whole picture. 

Carl: Mordecai, I’m out of the alcohol cure potions. Do you have 
the stuff for more? 

Mordecai: You read my mind. Pll whip up a batch when we get 
inside. With my upgraded table, I can make a version that’s a little 
more potent. 


“Let’s go see the space,” Louis said, standing up. Juice Box slid off his 
voluminous lap with a squeak. “I’ve always wanted to see how the other 
half lives.” 

“Me too,” Juice Box said, jumping up. 

“Oh, honey,” Donut said. “Not dressed like that you’re not.” 

Juice Box patted Donut on the head. “You are just the most adorable 
thing I have ever seen. If you want, I can turn into a whatever it is you are 
and show you a great time. I’ve never done it with royalty before. No 
charge. Itd be great for my résumé. Are you some sort of long-haired 
dog?” 

Louis and Firas both laughed. 

All of Donut’s hair poofed out. “What did you just call me?” 

I stepped forward to intervene. “Sorry, pretty lady,” I said to Juice Box. 
“The personal space is just for my friends here.” I tossed her a gold coin, 
which she deftly caught in midair. Her hand moved so quickly it reminded 
me of a viper strike. She didn’t turn her head to catch the coin, which gave 
me an unexpected and sudden chill. 

“Can you do me a favor?” I asked. “If you see any other non-locals like 
us around, let me know. Pll give you a gold coin for each one you find.” 

She, still in her Mouser form, turned her gaze from Donut and gave me 
a salute. She planted a smile on her face and rubbed Louis on the stomach. 
“Don’t forget our date tonight, big boy. Maybe Pll try out that Nurse Joy 
person you were describing.” 

We all entered the personal space as they looked about in wonder. 
Langley and the other archers moved around, inspecting everything while 
Louis and Firas jumped onto the couch. The cleaner bot beeped mournfully 
as Firas put his boots on the little table. 

“Where’s the bell?” Firas asked, his voice slurring. 

“Bell?” I asked. 

“You said something about a bell ringing.” 

I took a deep breath and decided not to engage. “Okay, guys,” I said, 
waving everyone to sit. “As you probably noticed, the gnomes just bombed 
the hell out of that other town. Nobody knows why yet, but if I had to 
guess, it probably has something to do with whatever collateral they had in 
their town hall. Maybe some crawler in that other town ended up 
accidentally killing it or setting it free or something. Something changed 
that let the gnomes know the Bactrians no longer had collateral.” 


“Hey, I have a question,” Firas said, raising his hand. The hand wavered 
in the air. Even from halfway across the room, I could smell the alcohol on 
both of them. I was reasonably certain booze wasn’t the only thing they 
were on. 

Goddamunit. “Yes?” 

“Yeah, we, like, don’t know what you’re talking about. What’s a 
Bactrian? What collateral? Where’s the bell?” 

Earlier, I had been assuming that Firas was from the middle east 
somewhere and Louis was Spanish. It was now clear that both of them were 
fellow Americans. 

“T had to put my car up as collateral for a loan once,” Louis said. “I used 
to lock it up in my old lady’s garage every night so they couldn’t repo it. 
The bastards got it anyway when I was at the club.” 

“Bastards,” Firas agreed. He turned to look at Katia. “Do you work 
here? Do you have anything to drink? I’m almost out of gold, so it’s gotta 
be cheap.” 

I was in the middle of renegotiating my personal vow not to outright 
murder fellow crawlers when Mordecai jumped across the room, landing 
heavily on the same side table Firas had his boots upon. The table shattered 
into pieces. Mordecai spread his wings out and leaned forward, glaring at 
the two wide-eyed crawlers. He lifted a claw, careful not to actually touch 
or make a movement toward either of them. The razor-sharp talon glinted 
like a knife as he pointed it at each in turn. 

“T want you two fuckwits to listen, and I want you to listen carefully. I 
don’t know how in the gods you survived this long, but I am about five 
seconds from telling my client to eviscerate both of you and to use your 
bodies as zombie meat shields. And don’t think she can’t do it. Isn’t that 
right, Donut?” 

Donut growled. 

“We are in a very dire situation here. But guess what? You two mouth 
breathers hit the survival lottery when you got put in the same quadrant as 
us, and you’re too stupid to even realize it. You can still get out of this, and 
you can still make it to the sixth floor if you take this seriously. If you don’t, 
you are doing more harm than good. And we do not have time for that. I 
have a drink that I am going to make for each of you, but it’s going to take 
about five minutes. So help me gods, if you two don’t shut the hell up and 


just listen, you will not persist long enough for me to make the potion for 
you.” 

“Whoa, chill,” Louis said. 

Firas looked at Louis. “Why did you tell the hooker to turn into a Big 
Bird? I ain’t banging anything from Sesame Street, man. That’s fucked up.” 

“He’s an eagle. Dude, did you ever watch G.I. Joe? Remember the 
Indian guy? He had an eagle named Freedom.” He laughed. “That show 
was so damn racist.” 

“No, I never really watched it. I saw the Muppets though. And that’s the 
same thing as Sesame Street.” 

Louis almost jumped up from his seat, eyes going wide. He looked at 
the door. “G.I. Joe. The Baroness! That’d be a lot easier than Gadget.” 

“Tt’d be better than this eagle, that’s for sure.” 

“Pll be back,” Mordecai said, sounding exasperated. He disappeared 
into the crafting room. 

“You know what,” I said. “We’re going to wait for Mordecai to make 
your drinks.” 

“Tell him to make us Dirty Shirleys,” Louis said. 

Donut gasped. “You know about Dirty Shirleys?” 

He laughed. “Yeah, we saw it on the recap show. Some dumb crawler 
got drunk on them and called out Lucia Mar. We use them now to see how 
good a bartender is. We get them as the first drink in every bar.” 

Donut: IF I MAGIC MISSILE HIM IN THE HEAD, WILL I GET 
IN TROUBLE? 

Carl: Yes. Yov’ll have to wait until we’re outside. 

Katia: They are so drunk that if you cast your new fire wall spell 
anywhere in the room, their breath will likely ignite, and they will self- 
immolate. You probably wouldn’t get blamed for that. 

Donut: YOU ARE A GENIUS. PM GOING TO TRY IT. 

Carl: No, you’re not. 

Mordecai: Don’t worry. I’ll take care of the issue. 

“Please,” Langley the Finnish archer said to Louis, speaking for the first 
time. The man had a gruff accent, and I didn’t know what an actual Finnish 
accent sounded like, but I was pretty sure this wasn’t it. This was more 
eastern European. “You must be serious. This is very serious. Listen to 
Carl.” 


Louis turned to the archer. “We are taking it seriously. We made it this 
far haven’t we?” 

As we waited for Mordecai to return, I sent a message to Elle and asked 
her if they also had a bunch of dumbass crawlers in her group. I knew the 
chat was public now, but I didn’t care. Team Meadow Lark had managed to 
secure another type of boat, a galley with fish-people rowers. They were 
probing the defenses of their assigned castle, an orc-run oil rig that shot 
fireballs at anybody who came close 

Elle: We’re the only ones in the water quadrant. We’ve seen the 
people on the land, but we haven’t talked to any of them. Their castle is 
similar to ours. It’s an oil refinery. The whole bubble is some stupid 
story about how we earthlings ruined our own planet. I think the air 
castle is just a storm cloud that rains acid. You get saddled with a 
bunch of layabouts? 

Carl: You don’t even want to know. 

“How did you two make it this far?” Katia asked Louis and Firas. 

“He has a spell,” Firas said. “He got it for being the first crawler to 
drive a van into the dungeon.” 

“You drove a van into the dungeon?” I asked. “I thought all the vehicles 
collapsed.” 

“Not the convertibles,” Louis said proudly. “I had the top off when it 
happened. And I didn’t see the stairwell until I was on top of it. It was right 
in the middle of I-95. I was so fucked up, I didn’t know what was 
happening. The road was all jacked all of a sudden. It was a bumpy ride. I 
saw the glowing entrance. Slammed the brakes, but it didn’t matter. I slid 
right in. Broke the axle. But it made it down the stairs and hit those doors 
and crashed right into the dungeon.” 

Mordecai returned, holding a pair of potions in a talon. They were not 
the regular alcohol cure potions. These were white with little frothy 
bubbles. I was about to examine one of them when the ridiculousness of 
what Louis said struck me. 

“Pm sorry,” I said. “A convertible van? Like a cargo van with the top 
off?” 

“Yeah man, it was sweet. It was my mom’s Chevy Astro. We took the 
top off. My friend Jojo saw this thing online on how to pimp out vans into 
convertibles, so we did it. My mom got really mad, but it got like 100,000 
likes on Instagram. I called it the Tiddy Twister.” 


“Where are you from? Wasn’t it snowing?” 

“Nah, man,” Louis said. “We didn’t get much snow in Miami. It was 
cold as shit, though. It was like five in the morning when it happened, too. I 
was driving back from Jojo’s. Saved my life.” 

“How old are you?” Katia asked Louis, looking at the balding, 
overweight man up and down. 

“Pm 27. How old are you, Punky Brewster?” 

“What’s the spell?” I asked. “And what happened to your van? Did you 
take any of the parts?” 

Mordecai handed each of the two men a potion. “Drink it.” 

Louis looked at the potion dubiously. But he shrugged and downed it. 
“Van was wrecked. Why would I take any parts? It’s not like I can build 
another Chevy Astro in the dungeon. Oh, so the spell is pretty badass. 
Check it out. It’s called Cloud of Exhaust. We don’t have to fight shit when 
I cast it. And Firas has his escape spell if we get in trouble. It’s called 
Puddle Jumper.” 

“What level is your Cloud of Exhaust?” Mordecai asked sharply. 

“Why’s the description on the potion blank?” Firas asked, holding the 
white potion up to the light. 

“Oh man, my head hurts. Cloud spell is Level 11,” Louis said. “I have 
to use it a lot. It has a ten-minute cooldown, though. Seriously, I think I’m 
going to be sick.” 

“You’ll be fine in a minute. Cloud of Exhaust’s cooldown is normally an 
hour,” Mordecai said. “Drink the potion, Firas. It won’t hurt you.” 

Louis shrugged. He was starting to look a little green. “Yeah, so my Pest 
Control class makes it so cloud-based spells or something have faster 
cooldowns. And are more effective. My guide guy said the only way I could 
possibly live was to choose that class. He was a dick. Kinda like you.” 

“You sound like you had a competent guide who did the best he could,” 
Mordecai said. 

“Yo, man. Something’s weird,” Firas said. “I don’t think we should take 
these potions.” 

“And you just paralyze whole groups of mobs and Puddle Jump out of 
there?” Mordecai asked. “You don’t kill them when they’re seized up?” 

“Nah,” Louis said. “Sometimes we do, but they wake up after you hit 
them. Some of those higher-level mobs, especially on the last floor, take a 


lot of hits to kill. We usually just spray and run. The spell was really 
effective in those tunnels and on the trains.” 

“Did you drink yours already?” Firas said. 

“He did. And he’s fine,” Mordecai said. “He’s not drunk anymore, are 
you Louis?” 

“Nah, man. That sobered me up real quick. I still feel sick though.” 

“You still have alcohol in your system. Don’t worry. It won’t be long.” 

“You sure I should take this?” Firas asked. “There’s no description. I’ve 
never seen that.” 

Carl: You’re not poisoning him, are you? 

Mordecai: No. Well, sort of. But it’s the good kind of poisoning. 
Trust me. 

“Jesus dude, just drink it,” I said. “We’re all waiting on you.” 

Firas downed the potion at the same moment Louis projectile vomited 
all over the floor. 

The cleaner bot let out an angry trill. 


Mordecai: Okay, here’s the deal with these assholes. Louis has an 
enhanced, legendary-tier spell called Cloud of Exhaust. It has a high- 
probability to knock out mobs for a variable amount of time, 
depending on the level difference. I don’t remember the specifics, but 
even high-level mobs will get conked out for a little bit. They’ll wake up 
the moment they’re touched. But any damage to them is enhanced for 
an additional thirty seconds after they wake. It’s one of those spells that 
helps guarantee that you’ll breeze through all the early floors. ’m 
almost certain it’s the same spell the goat lady Miriam Dom has. But 
instead of utilizing this like she has, these two idiots have been fleeing 
every encounter. It worked fine for them at first, but now they’re 
screwed. That moron doesn’t even realize what he has. He should be 
level 40 by now, at least. 

I barely registered what Mordecai said. The two crawlers were still on 
their hands and knees, scream-vomiting on the floor. Neither had stopped 
for several minutes. It reminded me of that week of leave we got after boot. 


Those of us without families spent it in Philadelphia drinking until we 
blacked out. 

Carl: Mordecai, what the hell did you give them? 

Mordecai: They’ll be fine. It’s called Rapid Detox. Clears them of 
alcohol and any negative effects of most drugs. Not Blitz, unfortunately, 
but most everything else. Works great. It makes it so certain toxins will 
no longer affect them. It only lasts for a single floor. 

Carl: So they can’t get drunk anymore? 

Mordecai: Or high. And if they do drink, they become violently ill. 
It’s used to treat alcoholism. And to torture prisoners. 

Katia: Why couldn’t he read the description? 

Mordecai: I added sage beetle ichor. It disguises potions, but it 
makes it so they go bad after an hour. It’s a good hack. Some places will 
have protections against the use of certain types of potions. Like battle 
arenas where you can’t use health pots. But if the potion is treated with 
the ichor, it makes it usable again. 

“Christ, man,” Louis said, standing up on unsteady legs. He was still 
breathing heavily. 

“Can we get on with this now?” I asked. 

“T just got a notification that says I can’t drink anymore,” Louis said. 
His voice turned to a whisper. “Not cool, man. Not cool. It’s all I got left.” 

“That’s not true. You still have your date with Juice Box,” said Donut. 


OceanofPDE:com 


WHEN THE SECOND, PALE SUN ROSE, IT MOVED RAPIDLY ACROSS THE SKY, 
closing in on the larger, yellow sun. This second sun was much smaller, but 
it caused the temperature to rise about twenty degrees. Once the two stars 
met in the sky, the sandstorm would start. I was never a physics guy, and I 
didn’t know if this sun thing mimicked any sort of real, or possible, orbital 
pattern. After talking with Imani and Elle, I knew this light/day pattern was 
exclusive to this bubble, so it was all an illusion anyway, all projected onto 
the bubble wall. 

I shielded my eyes, looking for the Wasteland. I couldn’t see it at all 
from here, which meant it’d already hit the outer ring. The entire town was 
talking about the destruction of the other town, though not even Donut 
could get anything out of the camels or the changelings about why it 
happened. 

The stars might not be real, but the sudden rise in temperature was no 
joke. It was so hot outside, it was difficult to breathe. The camels did not 
deploy the city-wide awning. They saved it for the sandstorm, which was 
unfortunate. All the town’s outside activity ground to a halt. Everyone 
stayed inside, though the temperature wasn’t much better inside the bars. 
Outside of town, the thorny devil mobs were replaced with something else. 
These were Donut-sized, fast-moving things called dune scythes. There 
were a lot of them outside the town’s walls, their red dots swarming about. I 
had no real desire to go out and face them, but I knew fighting them would 
be inevitable. 

“We’re going to need to install air conditioning on the Royal Chariot,” I 
said as I leaned against the back of the adobe building. We stood in the alley 


between two inns, facing the back of the town hall, which was behind the 
two buildings across the street. The closer alleyway was mere feet from the 
back of the Town Hall, and we didn’t want to get that close. 

Katia was there in that closer alleyway, leaned up against a metallic 
mechanism that snaked around the building that backed into the town hall. 
She was pretending to be a long, attached pipe, which gave her a raised 
view of the back door. She said the mechanism attached to the building’s 
side was pumping cold air to the residents within. 

“This is unbearable,” Donut said from my shoulder. “My paws are 
Sweating.” 

“Cats don’t sweat,” I said. 

“If cats don’t sweat, explain this, Carl,” Donut said, rubbing her paw on 
my neck. I couldn’t tell if it was wet or not since my entire body was 
drenched. I had a sweating problem. At the gym, I was one of those guys 
who left a puddle everywhere. I couldn’t help it, and right now my skin was 
doing a pretty good faucet impersonation. 

“Shush,” I said. “Someone’s coming out.” 

We’d noticed earlier there were two entrances to the town hall. The 
main entrance, which nobody seemed to use, and the back entrance we now 
faced. We watched as a dromedarian opened the door, tied his headscarf 
tightly around his head, and loped away. I froze as the creature strode right 
past Katia, but he didn’t pause. As the door closed, I caught sight of two 
guards standing inside. These were Waster Patrol dromedarians. Level 48 
each. 

The other camel turned left onto the street and disappeared, rounding 
the bend toward Weird Shit Alley. 

Carl: Did you get a good enough look? 

Katia: Yes. The guy who just left is named Henrik. He’s just a 
regular level 30, but we have a problem. He showed some sort of ID to 
the guard before he left. In a town full of shapeshifters, it makes sense 
to have extra security I guess. While the door was open, I could see the 
interior map for a minute. There are two guards everywhere. There’s 
at least 12 of them. 

Goddamnit. 

Carl: We’ll have to go with plan B. 

Katia’s plan had been to get a good look at the next dromedarian to 
leave, emulate his clothes and looks the best she could, and “return” inside 


just to get a quick peek. But with so many guards wandering about—guards 
who were likely on high alert—that plan wasn’t going to work. 

This was a problem. The whole building was high security, and if we 
did breach, odds were good we’d only be able to do it once. We had no idea 
what was hidden inside, nor did we know what we were going to do about it 
once we learned. If it turned out to be the gnome leader’s child or 
something, our best move was to leave him be for the moment. If my dual- 
stage rocket idea worked out, we wouldn’t need to deal with this collateral 
storyline at all. 

Carl: Did you see any guards on the second or third level? 

Katia: Just the offices. There’s a camel in half of them. The second 
floor is less crowded than the third. 

We’d learned from the Toe’s barkeeper that the citizens did not rest 
during the two-hour night. Instead, they mostly slept in the hot hours before 
the sandstorm started. And with less people out on the streets, now was the 
best time to infiltrate the building. 

I took a deep breath. This is a terrible idea. But short of going in there 
and just killing all the camel NPCs, I couldn’t see an alternative. Not when 
we were under such a time crunch. Gwendolyn’s team was building siege 
engines to breach the walls on the land quadrant, but she was worried they 
didn’t have enough people to assault the sandcastle of the “Mad Dune 
Mage.” We hadn’t heard shit from either of the other two quadrants. We had 
to get this done now. 

Carl: Louis. We’re going with the frog plan. You’re up. Firas, you 
too. 

Louis: Fuck, man. Really? 

Carl: Come on. Hurry up. 

Both Louis and Firas were inside the tavern next door. The two crawlers 
had been pouting about Mordecai’s potion, but the men were much easier to 
deal with when they were sober. Firas was much quieter and more 
introspective. He’d worked as a car detailer and audio installer before this. 
His Hammersmith class was melee-focused, specializing in hammer-based 
weapons and abilities. The only weapon he actually had was an 
intelligence-enhanced mace designed for a cleric. But his Puddle Jumper 
spell was at level 10, much higher than Donut’s six. 

Sober Louis was still an ass. I was pretty sure the guy never had a job in 
his life. He wouldn’t shut up about cartoons I’d never heard of. When he’d 


found out Katia was from Iceland, he started calling her “Lazy Town.” I had 
no idea why. He and Donut found common ground, however. Despite 
pretending to hate the show, Donut knew quite a bit about the 80’s program 
Knight Rider, much to Louis’s delight. 

I’d much rather have one of Langley’s guys in on this, but that group 
wasn’t very useful here. I had them all using their car-selling skills. On my 
word, they’d all ascend to the rooftops and cover our escape if everything 
went sideways. In the meantime, they went to work, the six of them 
spreading out to the different bars. The taverns would be mostly empty at 
this hour, but that was okay. Mordecai was currently doing the same. At this 
moment, he was sitting inside the Toe, drinking blood wine, telling the 
second-shift bartender about the group of grulke toad soldiers he’d seen out 
in the desert. 

The second floor of Town Hall was ringed by exterior balconies. Katia 
said the one facing the alley was attached to an office that appeared to be 
empty. We decided to keep Katia outside and hidden while Donut, Louis, 
Firas, and I all puddle jumped to the terrace. Since the cooldown of Puddle 
Jumper was five hours, we’d use Firas for the casting, and we’d save Donut 
for our escape. 

“Okay, once we’re in there,” I whispered, “keep your mouths shut. If 
someone sees us, we’re gonna have to kill them. The camels are assholes, 
but I want to avoid that if possible. So listen to me or Donut and do as 
you’re told.” 

They both nodded. I waited for Katia to give the all-clear, and Firas cast 
his spell, teleporting us to the balcony. Part of me was shocked it actually 
worked. All four of us crowded onto the metal railing. We all crouched 
down, trying to make ourselves look smaller. Above, the twin suns beat 
down onto us. I saw a single dromedarian from up here, two streets over, 
but his back was turned. We needed to hurry. 

A tall set of double doors led into the interior of the building. I grabbed 
the handle and tried to turn it, but it was locked. This was a thick, metal- 
reinforced security door, but thankfully it wasn’t magically locked. 

“Door,” I said to Donut. “And wait a few seconds before you withdraw 
the spell this time.” 

We’d practiced this a little bit. The last time we tried it, Donut had 
almost lopped my hand off. She cast Hole just above the handle. Thanks to 
her Glass Cannon class, the spell was significantly more powerful on this 


floor. The hole reached all the way through the thick door. I reached in, 
found the bolt, and I slowly turned it. The door opened with a click. I 
retracted my hand, and I peered inside, looking for threats. I saw nothing in 
the office. Donut snapped off the spell. 

“Remember when we cut that guy’s head off?” Donut whispered as we 
sneaked into the empty room. 

“Yeah, I still have that guy’s head in my inventory,” I said. Louis and 
Firas stumbled in after me. Louis was sweating so profusely, he made me 
look dry. He had to be losing an ounce of water weight a minute. I pushed 
the door closed. This office didn’t appear to be in regular use. There was a 
large, camel-sized desk and chair, a table with nothing on it, and an open 
and empty chest. The walls were made of wooden pillars. The floors 
creaked with each step. A complicated system of brass pipes ran along the 
interior wall. They looked to be either part of a steampunk-style AC, or an 
old-school pneumatic tube messaging system. 

Now that we were inside, my map populated with everything on the 
floor. There were multiple offices on this level, and only one appeared to be 
occupied. The three roaming guards moved through the hallways, though 
they hit the down stairwell and disappeared from my map. 

“Be careful before you step,” I said, moving as quietly as I could to the 
desk. I had a few buffs that disguised my footsteps. Louis and Firas had 
nothing, and they both stood there with their arms out, like they were 
surfing. “Let’s wait until the roaming guards return and go upstairs, and 
then we’ll move. Louis, be ready.” Louis nodded, not saying anything for 
the first time ever. 

I rifled through the desk, looting everything that wasn’t bolted down. It 
wasn’t much. I took the chair. I knew I could easily lift the desk, but I didn’t 
want to risk making a loud noise. 

Katia: Three guards just stepped outside. They’re smoking 
cigarettes and talking, huddling against the wall in the shade from the 
balconies. I think they’re taking a break. When the door was open, I 
could see the four of you and one more camel on the second floor. Your 
path to the room with the basement is clear. Go now. Pll warn you if 
they come back in. 

I hesitated. This wasn’t the plan. The three guards could walk back in at 
any moment. 


Katia: Oh shit, I see several more camels out there. They’re making 
their way down the street. I think it’s a shift change. Unless you want to 
sit there for the next hour while everyone gets settled, go now. 

Louis moved, and the floorboard creaked loudly. Damnit, I thought. We 
couldn’t wait. 

“All right, we’re moving out,” I said. “We can’t disguise our steps on 
these floors, so walk with calm purpose. Not fast, not slow.” 

“T don’t know what that means,” Firas said. 

“Just follow me,” I said. I strode out the door, revealing a long hallway. 
A row of paintings hung on the wall, each portraying the image of a stuffy, 
bored-looking camel. The wood floor was covered with a runner carpet, 
long and intricately patterned. The building was noticeably cooler. We 
walked down the hallway and down the stairs. 

We quickly crossed the hallway at the bottom of the stairs, which 
branched off toward both exits. The guards at either end did not see us as 
we walked past. We passed a few open rooms, a small kitchen, and then we 
came to a fortified door at the end of the hall. 

“Okay, same thing,” I whispered. “There are two guards on the other 
side of this door, so we have to do it quickly. Donut will cast her hole spell, 
and you’ll cast your cloud spell. You have to wait until after their dots turn 
red. Pll take care of that. Don’t step in front of the hole in the door. We 
don’t want them seeing you. Once they’re down, I’ ll try to open the door.” 

Louis looked as if he was about to pass out. I didn’t know how this guy 
had managed to make it this far. He cracked his neck and hopped back and 
forth on his legs like he was getting ready to run a sprint. “Do it.” 

Donut cast Hole, and I tossed one of my new sparklers through the 
opening. I’d discovered them while trying to make lower-powered 
explosives. All they consisted of was a wick and fuse from a hob lobber. 
They did hardly any damage. They made very little sound. But they shot 
sparks everywhere for a good five seconds. The crackling flickers shot off 
like angry hornets, stinging when they hit. 

“Now,” I hissed the moment the two dots turned red. 

Louis flung his arms forward, casting his spell. I stood off to the side, 
but in that moment, I saw the distinctive shape of a camel. He was sitting at 
a table, holding playing cards in his hands, covering his face in surprise at 
the sparkler attack. A heavy spear was leaned up against the wall. 


A deep, black smoke filled the room. The two camels within collapsed. 
One of them knocked over something, probably the damn card table, and a 
loud crash echoed throughout the hallway. 

“Fuck,” I whispered. I put my arm through the hole and reached 
desperately for the latch. Only there was no bolt to turn. It was just a key 
hole. And it was higher than I expected. It did not line up with the key hole 
on this side. There were two bolts, I realized. One had to use a key to 
unlock it from both sides to open the door. 

“Shit, I can’t get the door open,” I said, retracting my arm. 

“What was that?” a voice echoed from down the hall. 

“Check it out,” another called. These were the guards from the front and 
back talking to one another. 

“I’m gonna have to blow the door,” I said. “Everybody step back.” 

“Don’t be so dramatic, Carl,” Donut said. “Watch this.” 

She snapped off her Hole spell. She cast it again, but this time she 
placed it a few inches to the right, so the disappearing part of the hole 
included the two deadbolts and part of the wall and door jamb. The spell 
currently had an effective depth of about eight inches, which was plenty 
thick. She pushed at the door, and it swung open easily. There was a half- 
moon bite taken out of the door. The second half of the hole remained in the 
wall. 

“What the hell?” I said. “Why haven’t we been doing it like this the 
whole time?” 

I pushed my way into the room as the black smoke billowed out. 

“How long does the smoke last?” I asked, waving at it, suddenly 
alarmed. It was much thicker than I’d realized itd be. Unlike with my 
smoke bombs, I couldn’t see shit. It stank like diesel exhaust. I didn’t want 
to move deeper into the room in fear of touching one of the two camels. 
They woke up the moment you touched them. 

“It’s only a minute.” 

I heard steps. A camel was coming to investigate. “Shit, they’re going to 
see the smoke.” 

The smoke started to dissipate. I could now see the two forms on the 
ground, though there was something off about them. I pushed the door 
closed. “Turn off your hole, Donut.” 

“Really, Carl. You need to find a less offensive way to say that.” 

Shouting rose from down the hall. 


Katia: A guard just opened the door and yelled something. All of 
the camels are pouring inside. You have about 15 of them coming at 
you. 

“Goddamnit, Donut. Kill the spell.” 

She killed the spell. 

That ended up being a mistake. The moment it happened, I realized why 
we shouldn’t ever use the Hole spell to break open doors if we wanted to 
ever utilize said doors again. I’d either pushed the door closed too tightly, or 
not tightly enough, but when the missing part of the door reappeared from 
wherever it went, the bolts weren’t perfectly lined up with how they’d been 
before. The door cracked loudly and then swung back open. Two hunks of 
metal—pieces of the actual bolts, I realized—fell to the floor. The whole 
side of the door looked as if Pd hit it with a small charge. 

“Well that was unexpected,” Donut said. “Carl, what did you do? If you 
were going to do that, you should’ve just blown it up.” 

“Oh shit, oh shit,” Louis said. “What’re we going to do? Cat, you gotta 
teleport us out!” 

“Cat?” Donut said. “I am Princess Donut, you buffoon!” 

I rolled a goblin smoke bomb down the hall and then pushed the free- 
swinging door back closed. I pulled one of the heavy chocks from the 
subway level. I leaned it against the entrance and pushed the brace against 
the ceiling. They’d have to work hard to get in here now. But we were also 
trapped. 

“You two, be useful and hold this closed.” 

Louis and Firas jumped up and leaned against the door. Louis 
whimpered. Their presence against the door probably didn’t help, but it 
gave them something to do. 

I returned my gaze to the room, focusing on the two passed-out 
dromedarians. Only they weren’t dromedarians anymore. 

“What the shit?” 

These were changelings. They’d both reverted to their faceless, 
humanoid form. The one I’d seen just a moment ago playing cards was 
passed out on the floor, cards spread out all around him, only now he was 
much smaller. His head pulsed with an odd, sapphire luminescence, almost 
like a jellyfish. 

I examined his properties. He had a 50-second timer over his head, 
which was significantly shorter than we’d anticipated, even with the level 


discrepancy between Louis and the mob. Louis said they were usually out 
for over five minutes. 

Svern — Changeling Principal. Level 49. 

This mob is Exhaust-ed. 

Have you ever visited the home of an elderly widow and seen her 
collection of miniature spoons? Or _ thimbles? Maybe they're 
refrigerator magnets, or salt and pepper shakers. It’s always 
something. They’re all part of a set. There’s a display case involved, 
with a special slot for each one. It was ambitious of her to buy the case 
before it was filled. It sits there in her home, a layer of dust atop it 
where she can no longer reach. A shrine to youthful optimism. 

Inevitably, as life steamrolls on, she’s become more concerned with 
what is missing from her collection rather than what she already has. 
That ashtray from Niagara Falls was a hard-won souvenir, sitting 
proudly next to the one from Branson. But the moment it was obtained, 
it lost its value. And now all she thinks about is that empty space, right 
there. Right next to Graceland. It eats at her. 

It is a totem to everything she did not accomplish. Her failures. She 
stares at it, sometimes. That space. That damn, empty space. All she 
wants is to fill it. 

That is both the curse and the driving force of the Changeling 
Principal. 


Carl: What the fuck is a Changeling Principal? The description is some 
high school essay bullshit. 

Mordecai: Ah, shit. Damn. I should have known. 

Carl: Explain. The guards were these things, pretending to be 
camels. Now I’m wondering if all the camels are shapeshifters. No 
wonder everybody hates you guys. 

The door crashed, but it held firm. Louis cried out in fear. Firas gritted 
his teeth. We didn’t have long. 

Mordecai: They’re rare. It’s an old story I haven’t seen used in a 
long, long time. They’re a sect of changeling culture. Sometimes they 
give them new, special powers. Cultish, kind of like those city elves 
from the third floor, but less apocalyptic and more power hungry. They 
are obsessed with getting a full library. Changelings can only change 


into something they’ve physically touched, so they seek out rare 
creatures. 

Carl: Any special way to kill them when they’re in their weird, 
faceless form? 

Mordecai: Get the brain. The glowing part. If you kill one, take the 
head. I can make a cool potion from it. It only works if it’s not 
transformed when you kill it. Try to knock them out first. Sometimes 
that makes them revert form. 

What any of this had to do with the damn gnomes was beyond me, but I 
strongly suspected whatever was going on right now was a mirror of what 
had happened over in the Bactrian town. The crawlers had fucked up the 
City Hall quest, just like we were in the middle of doing. 

The original plan was to get in and out without being noticed or hurting 
any of the NPCs. And if we had to do something with the collateral, we had 
a plan to shift the blame. But with this changeling fuckery, we couldn’t 
afford to be diplomatic. I activated Talon Strike and smashed down on 
Svern’s head with my foot. The Exhausted debuff disappeared, but I hit him 
again before he could react, stunning him all over again. I hit him one more 
time, killing the level 49 monster. The moment he died, the body shriveled 
like a raisin, all except the round head. I picked the whole thing up, sticking 
it into my inventory. 

There was another door here. A trap door, leading down to whatever it 
was they were protecting. We’d get to that in a second. The second 
changeling guard had less than 15 seconds left until he reawakened. 

“You two. Kill the other one. Hurry.” 

“What?” Louis asked, horrified. “He’s going to wake up the second I hit 
him.” 

“He’s going to wake up anyway. Hurry the hell up. Hit him in the head.” 

Firas pulled his mace, and Louis pulled his weapon: a glowing baseball 
bat covered in spikes. I leaned up against the chock as it banged again. 

Carl: Donut, kill him the moment he wakes up. A full-power missile 
to the head. Just make sure they each get a few hits in. 

Donut: HE’S BOSS LEVEL STRONG. WHAT IF IT DOESN’T 
WORK? 

I didn’t get a chance to answer. Firas took his mace and smashed it as 
hard as he could directly into the changeling just as the timer ran out. Louis 
smacked him with the bat. Both of them pummeled it in the head a few 


times. The spell enhanced the damage for several seconds, but they barely 
caused the creature’s health to fall at all. 

Donut slammed it in the head with a point-blank, double strength Magic 
Missile. It almost killed him. She quickly hit him again. That worked. 
Luminescent, blue material splattered over the room like she’d broken open 
a glo stick. 

“Stay here,” I said to Louis and Firas as I pulled open the trap door. I 
was assaulted by a blast of fetid-smelling cold air. “And get back to the 
chock. Hold it closed.” 

The two both returned to their spots against the metal blockage. “I went 
up two levels,” Louis said to Firas, who had also gone up to level 24. 

Katia: There’s a bell ringing now. The camels are coming out. 

I could hear the bell through the walls. 

Carl: Stay put. We’re almost done. I hope. 

“Donut, pull out Mongo and stay up here.” I pointed at the solid, left 
wall. It led to the outside. “We’re going to escape that way. If they breach 
before I come back up, go without me. Try not to let them see you, but if 
they do, flee. Don’t fight. We’ll meet back up at the saferoom.” 

She started to protest, but I quickly descended the stairs into the 
darkness. 


I lit a torch and dropped it. It fell to the bottom of the short ladder, and it 
filled the cavern with light. 

The shape of the room appeared on my map. It wasn’t big. There didn’t 
appear to be anyone else in here. 

Mongo appeared at the top of the trapdoor and squawked at me. “Stay 
up there,” I said. 

The ground was stone, carved with symbols that looked like Egyptian 
hieroglyphs. I was standing atop the tomb. The ceiling was low enough that 
I had to stoop. There was no way a camel could fit in here. There was a 
table, and a small chair. On the table was a roll of paper. I picked it up. 

Map. The Necropolis of Anser. 

You’ve discovered the catacomb plans. The information has been 
added to your map and to the map of everyone in your party. 


“Shit,” I said as the scroll dissipated into dust. The minimap showing 
the area below my feet populated. I zoomed the map out, revealing a maze 
that made the map of the Iron Tangle look like child’s play. Fuck me. 

There was also a small bowl on the table. It had a trio of shriveled, 
black plants within. Mushrooms, I realized. Not the kind you eat. At least 
not for food. I pulled the bowl into my inventory. Then I took the table and 
chair. 

Katia: Something odd just happened. Two of the level-30 camels 
wanted into the town hall, but another camel stopped them. It was one 
of the waster guards. They fought, and the guard camel killed them 
both. He dragged their bodies inside. 

Carl: Did they stay camels when they died? 

Katia: Uh, yeah. Why? 

Carl: Pll explain later. 

Donut: HURRY UP, CARL. I CAN HEAR THEM TALKING 
ABOUT HITTING THE DOOR WITH A MISSILE. 

I could now see the room went on even further than I realized. What I 
thought was the end of the chamber was actually the boundary line to the 
subterranean zone. Even with the map, I wouldn’t be allowed in there. Not 
until we dealt with the gnomish castle. 

But I also noticed something else. The white dot of an NPC. It was on 
the other side of the barrier, so I wouldn’t be able to get to him. 

“Hello?” I called. The back of the room was filled with shadow. 

“Henrik? Is that you? Back so soon?” a voice croaked. “I heard fighting. 
Who will you pretend to be today? My mother, perhaps? The last dose has 
not worn off yet. If you feed me more, it might kill me this time. I can only 
hope.” 

I couldn’t see the creature, but the voice was similar to that of a Bopca. 

I was about to light another torch when I saw the lantern hanging from 
the ceiling. It had a tiny flame within, like a pilot light. I turned the handle, 
and the whole room lit up. 

The shimmering wall of the quadrant boundary appeared. And just past 
it, tied up in chains to the wall was an elderly gnome. The creature was not 
wearing the red hat, and he looked sickly and pale. He had scabs on his 
face, and he looked half starved to death. 

Wynne. Dirigible Gnome Flesh Mechanic. Level 50. 


The Dirigible Gnomes were once a peaceful race. All they ever 
wanted was two things. One, to figure out how the world worked. And 
two, to be left alone. 

In order to escape a busy, teeming world filled with competing 
intelligent species, all of whom loved to wage war, the Dirigible Gnomes 
learned how to take to the clouds, building a variety of airships and 
floating settlements, allowing them to escape any sort of trouble. 

But as we all know, trouble doesn’t care if you don’t want to be 
found. 

The history of the Dirigible Gnomes is long, complicated, and 
tragic. But the end result is the inevitable result of all peaceful races. 
They were, eventually, forced to choose between fighting or being 
wiped out. They chose to fight. 

Wynne is the great and favored uncle of Commandant Kane of the 
Dreadnaught Wasteland. He is a Flesh Mechanic, a healer gifted with 
the ability to bring the long dead back to life, if only temporarily. He is 
being held as hostage by the Dromedarians, as a guarantee of peace. 

Quest Complete. Stay out of city hall. 

I now had more questions than answers. What had seemed so simple at 
first was now shaping into a complicated story. The dromedarians had this 
gnome guy as hostage. But it appeared the changelings had infiltrated the 
ranks of the camels, and they had their own interests in the gnome. And I 
still had no idea how I could use this information to get my ass into the 
throne room of the Wasteland, thousands of feet into the sky. 

If I can get him out of those chains, we can take him. Talk ourselves 
onto the flying platform. 

As if it was reading my mind, the system gave me an update. 

New Quest. Free Wynne from his bondage. 

Wynne the Dirigible Gnome is in chains. Free him, and he will 
provide easy access to the Wasteland. 

Reward: You will receive a Silver Quest Box. 

Katia: Nice. Now get the hell out of there. 

Donut: CARL. I DON’T KNOW WHAT YOU’RE DOING DOWN 
THERE BUT YOU NEED TO GET BACK UP HERE BEFORE 
LOUIS DIES OF A HEART ATTACK. 

I couldn’t approach him. I had an idea, but it would require Donut. I 
started to call her, but I paused the moment I saw the group of five blue dots 


on the map. 

Crawlers. On the subterranean side. They were running down a hall 
toward me, coming fast. 

“A human?” Wynne said, looking in my direction. “That’s a new one, 
Henrik. Do you think a human can talk me into revealing the spell?” 

“Tt’s this way,” a voice cried. A man. The five crawlers rushed into the 
chamber, emerging out of the darkness. All five were male. All levels 23 to 
26. It was an eclectic group. Three were human. One was an odd creature 
with a human head and torso, but the body of a tarantula. I didn’t know 
what the hell the last guy was. He looked like a dude wearing a goddamn 
banana costume. 

“You bastard. You goddamn bastard,” a man said before I could greet 
them. “You destroyed the map.” 

“Hello to you, too,” I said. I examined the man. 

Crawler #4,778,551. “Low Thi.” 

Level 25. 

Race: Human. 

Class: D-Bag Geek. 

D-Bag Geek? Really? “The map was on the table back here out of your 
reach. It disappeared the moment I picked it up. It installed itself into my 
system.” 

“Well, we’re now fucked. There were two maps, and we lost both of 
them. This place is a goddamn nightmare.” 

“Its Carl,” another crawler said. This was another human named Tyler 
Storm. A level 26 Weather Engineer. 

“It’s not really a human,” Wynne the gnome said, looking between me 
and the newcomers. “He’s a changeling named Henrik! He’s torturing me, 
trying to get me to cast a spell that would give flesh to Quetzalcoatlus. He 
drugs me, and I won’t last much longer. I have the map to the temple. I 
know of your kind. If you kill me, you will have access. You can take it 
from me. Kill me. Kill me fast!” 

“No,” I said as Low Thi pulled a spear from his inventory. He raised it 
and pointed it at the gnome’s head. “No, no, no!” 

The man jabbed forward. The NPC slouched over, dead. 

Quest failed. Free Wynne from his bondage. 

Low Thi looked up. “Hey, I just got an achievement called Cockblock 
for ruining your quest. I guess you really are Carl.” 


“This guy doesn’t have a map on him. He doesn’t have shit,” the banana 
guy said. His name was Mike Barnes 3. He was a level 23 Banana 
Farmer. “We’re screwed.” 

Deep breath, deep breath. 

“Do you assholes have any sort of towns or villages in there?” 

“Yes,” Low Thi said. 

“Do any of you have Desperado Club access?” 

“I do,” the spider guy said. He indicated the third human. “Bobby and I 
are the only ones.” 

“Meet me there in a goddamn hour.” 

“Why?” the spider asked. His name was Morris Sp. A level 23 
Freelance Psychiatrist. 

“Because I’m going to kick your goddamn ass. And then I need to 
transcribe your map to you. That is if this town doesn’t get blown to hell in 
the meantime.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


NEw ACHIEVEMENT! TOTAL, UTTER FAILURE. 

You failed a quest less than five minutes after you received it. Now 
that’s talent. 

Reward: Ha. 

“Oh fuck off,” I muttered as I ascended the stairs just as Donut cried, 
“Get down!” 

Louis and Firas hit the deck as the chock was hit with an explosive. Ka- 
blam! 

Fire licked through the room, and everything tumbled as the incredible 
sound temporarily rendered me deaf. The chock was bent over and 
dislodged with a hole right in the center, peeled open like a baked potato. 
The brace that went from the floor to the ceiling held strong. The door itself 
was Shattered. Smoke filled the room, black and choking. 

One of the camels had blasted a rocket at the door. They’d probably 
shoot another one any second. 

“Fire in the hole,” I coughed. I threw one of my new eighth-strength 
hob-lobbers through the mangled doorway, hurling it down the long hall. I 
crouched. The explosion came, but I couldn’t hear it. The walls shook, 
followed by a secondary explosion that was even bigger. Part of the ceiling 
caved in. Experience notifications scrolled by. 

That’s why you don t carry your explosives on the outside, motherfucker. 

I still couldn’t hear anything, but the building continued to rumble. The 
stench of gunpowder and smoke filled the room. This was real smoke. The 
building was on fire. I downed a health potion, and the pain in my head 


eased. I knew from experience it’d take a full minute for my hearing to 
return. 

Both Firas and Louis were on the ground. Louis was screaming, his 
hands to his ears, burn marks across his forearms. He had shrapnel wounds 
up and down his torso. That asshole needs armor. Firas had been blown 
across the room and was Unconscious, but otherwise looked okay. The 
rocket had propelled everything back, scorching the walls. But the metal 
block had protected them like a shield. 

Donut jumped astride Mongo. Both had been in the back part of the 
room and appeared unharmed. She moved to Firas and used one of our 
precious healing scrolls on him. They hadn’t seen us yet, but that would 
change in a moment. I dropped one of my last hobgoblin smoke curtains at 
my feet. 

Carl: Donut, let’s get out of here. 

Donut: WHAT DO YOU THINK PM DOING, CARL? 

Donut cast Hole on the far wall, and it materialized, leading outside. It 
faced the side of an alley, but luckily, if we stood to the right of the hole, we 
had a line-of-sight down one of the main thoroughfares, all the way to 
where it curved away and toward the wall of the bowl. There were camels 
everywhere, all headed in this direction. The smoke curtain, much too 
powerful for such a small place, billowed out the magical hole. The camels 
on the streets all had white dots on the map, so the opacity of the smoke 
curtain wasn’t enough to obscure us when they got close. We couldn’t let 
them see us. We had to move fast. We moved to the side of the temporary 
hole. 

“Louis, take a potion,” I hissed as I pulled the stuffed, Grulke infantry 
figure from my inventory. My ears started that familiar buzzing, letting me 
know my hearing was returning. 

Bautista had given me the beanbag toy. He still had almost a thousand 
of the things, all different. He was going through them rapidly as he and his 
team explored through his subterranean level, which was really some sort of 
ant colony thing. 

I ripped the tag off the beanbag and tossed it through the hole and out 
into the alley. We waited a few precious seconds for the creature to be 
summoned. Louis finally figured out the health potion and rose to his feet, 
whimpering, rubbing his arms. He was covered in splotches of blood. I 
hissed at him to crouch down and stay away from the room’s new window. 


A mighty croak filled the chamber. The grulke creature stood to his feet 
in the alley. He turned to peek his head back in through the hole to look at 
me. He had a 25-second timer over his head. The level-15 frog creature 
looked just like Mordecai had on the last floor. 

“What am I doing here?” he asked, looking directly at me. Half-opacity 
smoke billowed all around us. Shouting came from every direction. The 
entire building felt as if it was about to collapse. I thought of the protective 
sail over the building that safeguarded the town from the sand storm. The 
storm would be here in less than two hours. 

“Think you can hop out onto the street, turn right and then hop over the 
city wall?” 

I couldn’t see it from here, but the main entrance to the town was only a 
few hundred feet away. 

“You summoned me just to make me run like a little bitch?” 

“Yes. Hurry. Go!” 

The frog only had ten seconds left. He grumbled but hopped out onto 
the street, landing in front of a pair of surprised camels. He bounded to the 
right, sailing up into the air, crashing loudly. He hopped once more and out 
of sight. 

“Do it,” I said to Donut as I tossed one more smoke bomb, this time out 
on the street. I really needed a non-magical version, one that worked on 
NPCs and not just red-tagged mobs. Behind us and through the mangled 
remains of the interior door, I heard shouting. More dromedarians were 
coming into the building, despite it being on fire. Donut’s Hole spell would 
soon run dry. It was time to go. 

Louis dragged the still-recovering form of Firas over, and we teleported 
away. Donut puddle jumped us all the way down the street, right where the 
street started to curve with the wall. 

I quickly looked around. There were several camels about, but all had 
their eyes on the city hall building, which billowed smoke into the air. Fire 
burst from a window on the second level. 

“Whoa, that was way further than I expected,” I said, standing to my 
full height. “I wish you’d done that last time.” 

“Tt lets me send us really far now,” Donut said, also looking around. A 
female camel standing about ten feet away looked in our direction and 
startled at our sudden appearance. 

“Oh my, what happened?” Donut asked, sounding innocent. 


The camel paused uncertainly. Her eyes focused on Firas who was 
being held up by Louis. I pulled an empty bottle of whiskey from my 
inventory and pretended to drink in an attempt to look like we’d just 
wandered over here from a nearby bar. She seemed to relax. She blinked 
twice and said, “The town hall was attacked by frog creatures. Nobody 
knows where they came from. I saw one with my own eyes. He jumped to 
the top of the house right there and then leapt straight out of town.” 

“T never liked frogs,” Donut declared. “Filthy creatures. Have you seen 
their tongues? They’re sticky. Anything with a sticky tongue can’t be 
trusted. Can you imagine having something sticky in your mouth at all 
times?” 

The dromedarian nodded and returned her attention back to the burning 
town hall. The tulip-shaped sail atop the building was not catching on fire, 
but the whole structure was about to collapse to the ground. Camels on stilts 
appeared, all pouring buckets of water on the fire. It wasn’t going to help. 

Katia came strolling up in her regular, human form. She had what 
looked like an iced tea in her hand with a little umbrella. She sipped on it. 

“What was the plan again?” she asked. “Oh yes, I remember. You were 
going to sneak in, figure out what they had hidden in there, and sneak out 
again undetected. Good job.” 

“That’s why we have backup plans,” I said, still watching the burning 
building. “At least they don’t know it was us.” 

“The frog con isn’t going to last,” she said. “This world is too small to 
pull that sort of scam off. They’re going to go out there and find no other 
frog creatures. Or worse, they’ ll find that stuffed animal it turns back into. 
And then they’re going to realize the only ones who mentioned seeing the 
frogs were all the new people. It’s not rocket science.” 

“I thought it went quite well,” Donut said. “Also, they’re toads. Not 
frogs.” 

“Is it always like this?” Louis asked. He looked like he was going to 
vomit again. Firas had healed, but he was sitting on the ground, rocking 
back and forth. 

“Like what?” I asked. 

He didn’t answer. 

I turned my gaze back to Katia. “We have bigger problems than them 
figuring out it was us. The moment the gnomes realize their collateral is 


dead, they’re going to unleash hell on the town. Pd like to avoid that, but I 
don’t know how.” 

“How will they even know?” Donut asked, looking up into the sky. 
Above, the twin suns were getting closer by the minute. 

It was still unbearably hot. I snatched Katia’s drink and took a sip. It 
wasn’t iced tea. It was some girly alcoholic drink. “I don’t know. But they 
found out about the other town’s collateral somehow.” I told them exactly 
what had happened in the basement. “I’m guessing those subterranean 
assholes probably did the same thing on the other side. They killed the 
collateral, whatever it was, in an attempt to somehow get to the map, that 
was likely just out of their reach. Whatever happened, it caused the town to 
be bombed. I bet we just did the same thing here. We have a little more than 
an hour before the storm, two hours of storm, two hours of post-storm 
twilight, and then two hours of night. That’s about how long before that 
airship will be back in this general area. So whatever we do about it, we 
better do it quickly.” 

To accentuate the point, the city hall collapsed with a mighty crash. The 
minaret atop the building tumbled over and landed on the street as camels 
scattered. 

“You keep destroying governmental buildings, Carl,” Donut said. 
“People are going to start thinking you have a problem with authority.” 


Soon after, several dromedarians went to work manually affixing the storm 
shield over the city. The town hall had been the tallest building, but they 
had prepared for this contingency. A group of dromedarians tirelessly set up 
a scaffolding system to hold the shield up. They worked quickly, unfurling 
the canvas, filling the town with shadow. 

“That material looks like it used to be part of a balloon,” Katia said. 
“Tt’s definitely magical.” 

I stared at the creatures feverishly working to protect the city. Were 
these guys real dromedarians? Or were they changelings? Katia had 
witnessed a shapeshifter murdering two dromedarians, so it was clear the 
camels didn’t know that their ranks had been infiltrated. This was some 
serious Invasion of the Body Snatchers bullshit. 


Carl: Is there any way we can tell which ones of these guys are real? 

Mordecai: I’ve been thinking about it, and I think I have an idea. 
Donut. Do your sunglasses have the ability to see based on heat 
signature? 

Donut: I DON’T KNOW. THERE ARE LOTS OF MODES. 
PROBABLY. 

Mordecai: If it does, a real dromedarian and a changeling will have 
almost an identical heat signature, but the brain of the changeling will 
be a lot hotter. That might make their heads a little hotter. It'll 
probably be very subtle, but you might be able to make that work. 

Donut: OKAY I WILL TRY BUT I WOULDN’T GET MY HOPES 
UP. THEIR HEADSCARVES WILL MAKE IT EXTRA HARD TO 
SEE. 

I sent Louis and Firas off to a saferoom. There was only a single real 
saferoom in town for folks without a personal space, and it was in Weird 
Shit Alley. We hadn’t gone in there yet, but everyone was a little scared of 
the street. I told them to go anyway. They’d both received several 
achievements for participating in that fight, likely all boxes we’d already 
received. They were both marveling at the sudden influx of views and 
follows. After they collected their loot, they needed to hook up with 
Langley and the other archers, who were going to spend some time outside 
the gates grinding until the storm hit. 

We needed to do that, too. This floor was going to require us spending a 
lot of time in the crafting room, which meant less time for regular 
experience. That was deliberate, designed to slow down our progress. We 
couldn’t keep relying on boss battles to give us big bumps of experience. 
Regular, old-school grinding was important, not just for experience, but to 
keep training up our skills. 

We were always juggling. We were slightly ahead of the curve, but the 
archer guys were a perfect example of how lagging behind on a single floor 
could bite you on the ass. 

“Hey,” I said to a passing dromedarian. Donut was playing with the 
settings on her sunglasses, trying to figure out how to overlay the heat 
signature setting. She wanted me to get one to pause close by so she could 
figure it out. 

“Are the gnomes going to bomb the city now?” I asked. “Like they did 
to the other town?” 


This camel was a woman. A level-30 named Emerald. 

She looked at me with disdain, but then Donut complimented her 
headscarf, and the camel changed before our eyes. 

“We need to get through the rubble. There’s something important buried 
in the basement of the town hall, and... and it may still be with us,” she 
said, though her voice held little hope. 

They didn’t know if Wynne the gnome was alive or dead. They were 
going to be sorely disappointed. 

“What if it’s not?” 

She paused. I didn’t think she was going to answer, but then she said, 
“Then we move to the shelters. Every day after sunrise, we give the gnomes 
proof of collateral. If that doesn’t happen tomorrow, what happened to the 
Bactrians will happen to us.” 

“Proof?” I asked. “What sort of proof?” 

“Look, I’m going to help with the rescue efforts. But if I were you, I’d 
go find a different town.” 

“There are no other towns,” I said. 


We headed toward the Desperado Club where I was to meet up with the 
idiots from the subterranean level. I was going to speak with them for a bit, 
maybe leave Katia and Donut in the club so they could transfer the map 
over the best they could. In the meantime, I had to get back to base as soon 
as possible. I was going to spend some time with the two-stage rocket, 
though I feared even that wasn’t going to be strong enough to reach the 
Wasteland. According to the guy Donut and Mordecai bought the rockets 
from, the projectiles could only hit planes that were 500 feet off the ground. 
Preferably under 300. That was no good. I was going to use my sapper’s 
table to build a rocket that would, hopefully, have much more range. 

I checked in with Gwendolyn Duet as we headed to the club. They’d 
managed to breach a hole in the first of the four walls, which was made of 
sand. The second was made of seashell, and they felt they could break 
through that also instead of going over. She had them building siege ladders 
and catapults just in case. They hadn’t seen or met any resistance from the 


castle itself, but it was slow work because the mobs on the beach were a 
constant threat and were always attacking. 

Worst of all, however, was this massive bird that kept harassing them. It 
was a giant version of the chainsaw buzzards she’d described earlier, only 
this one was a borough boss. It was constantly circling the structure of the 
necropolis. If it saw any crawlers out in the open, it would swoop down to 
attack. It had wrecked two siege towers they’d started building, causing 
them to abandon the idea. It was too strong for them to fight, so they had to 
hide every time it appeared. The thing was so fast, they couldn’t even get a 
good description off of it. The creature was seriously hindering their efforts. 

Gwen: Oh, I do have some good news. I saw a pair of crawlers on 
the water. They were too far away to talk, but they were in some 20,000 
Leagues Under the Sea-looking submarine thing. It popped up like a 
cork. The two crawlers emerged and fought a jellyfish thing attached to 
the outside of the sub, and then they disappeared again. So we know 
somebody is working on it under there. 

Carl: That is good news. Take care of yourself. 

Just before we entered the club, all three of us received a notification. 

Admin Notice. Congratulations, Crawler. You have received a 
second sponsor! 

Viewers watching your feed will now see advertisements produced 
by both of your sponsors. 

Sponsor’s Name: The Open Intellect Pacifist Action Network, 
Intergalactic NFC. 

Additional details available in the Sponsorship Tab of your 
interface. 

My heart sank the moment I saw the word “Pacifist.” Who the hell were 
these guys? I sent a quick message to Mordecai. 

Mordecai: Never heard of them, but they gotta be rich. That NFC 
stands for Not for Conquest. That means they’re not sponsored by any 
system, and they are free from taxes. Like a non-profit. 

Carl: A goddamned charity? Like some religion? 

Mordecai: There’s no such thing as a non-profit religion. At least 
not in the legal sense. It sounds like one of the many groups out there 
that don’t support the crawl. They probably bought into your 
sponsorship so they can show commercials. I hope that’s not the case. If 
it is, you won’t be getting any boxes from them. 


I started to respond, but I was interrupted by Donut. 

“Carl, Carl, I got a new sponsor!” Donut said, hopping up and down on 
the back of Mongo, which caused him to also start hopping up and down 
with excitement. “They’re called, ‘Veriluxx RealPet Companions!’ Don’t 
they sound just awesome? I wonder who that is! Who did you get? What 
about you, Katia?” 

“I got the Squim Conglomerate,” Katia said. “I don’t know who that is.” 

“I do,” I said. “They’re the corporation who ran the crawl the last 
season. They’re a planet-mining company just like Borant. They do the 
battle royale style crawls. I don’t know what type of alien they are.” 

“Huh,” Katia said. “Interesting. You can see who else they sponsor, and 
the list has like 500 crawlers on it. I don’t recognize any of the names.” 

I remembered that was a thing, but the Valtay hadn’t sponsored anybody 
else. I checked now, and they still only sponsored me. My new one didn’t 
sponsor anybody else, either. 

“Hey, not fair,” Donut said, suddenly sounding dejected. “My new 
sponsor sponsors a bunch of other people. And Princess D’Nadia just 
sponsored five other crawlers, too.” 

“They must be pretty special if Princess D’Nadia likes them,” I said, 
reaching over to scratch Donut on the head. She harumphed. 

“Well I’m probably the best one,” she grumbled. 

Loita: Congratulations on the new sponsors. All three of you 
commanded very high fees. Both Carl and Donut had bidding wars 
that lasted until the final possible microsecond. Donut, you’ll be happy 
to know that you brought in the highest sponsorship bid in the history 
of the series, beating out both Carl and Prepotente. 

Next to me, all signs of dejection fled as Donut did another little hop of 
joy. 

Donut: THAT’S PRETTY MUCH WHAT I EXPECTED. HOW’S 
ZEV? 

Carl: Lucia isn’t commanding the most sponsorship money? 

Loita ignored both of the questions. 

Loita: Furthermore, Donut, you will soon be receiving a benefactor 
box from your new sponsor. It is a product sample. We are requesting 
that you take it out and interact with it a few times. Carl, feel free to 
make some of your famous comments about it. This will appear to be a 
regular benefactor box, but it is in fact part of their sponsorship 


contract. This box is a freebie for them. It is something new we are 
trying with some select crawlers to attract more possible sponsors. So 
try not to disparage the product too much if you want Veriluxx to send 
you a real benefactor box. In six or seven days, assuming you’re still 
with us, you two plus Mongo will be going on a program where you 
discuss the product. 

Carl: We’re going on an infomercial? Are you kidding me? 

Loita: I am not Zev, Carl. Do not speak back to me like that. It will 
not be tolerated. 

I almost told her to go fuck herself, but I held my tongue. Now was not 
the time to push it. 

Donut: WHAT ABOUT KATIA? 

Loita: Katia, I have you booked on a separate program around the 
same time. You will be doing it solo. This will be a one-on-one interview 
on a show called Dungeon Sidekicks. 

Katia: I can’t wait. 

Donut: HOW IS ZEV DOING, LOITA? 

Loita: Zev is still in treatment. We expect her return shortly. 

“A goddamned infomercial?” I said. 

“I wonder what the product is,” Donut said as she dismounted Mongo. 
The dinosaur whimpered as he went into the carrier, but he obediently 
allowed her to store him. She jumped to my shoulder as we entered the 
Desperado Club. Donut gasped with a sudden realization, putting her paw 
on the side of my head. “Do you think there’ ll be a script? Do you think PI 
get lines? Like a real actress?” 


“Penis Parade? Really?” Katia said, looking about the room. We sat at our 
regular booth. Bomo and the Sledge stood guard nearby. With Katia’s 
acquisition of the Desperado Pass, we decided to add a third regular 
bodyguard to the team. This new guy was also a cretin. A rock creature. His 
name was Very Sullen. 

“T like the Penis Parade,” Donut said. “They give out hats if you tip 
them a gold coin. Sledgie likes it too, isn’t that right?” 

The Sledge rumbled. 


“Where are those assholes?” I said, looking about. The club wasn’t very 
full. I saw only a handful of crawlers, and most of them were going straight 
for the Silk Road or the guild hall. Nobody had any leisure time any more. I 
also needed to go to the market and stock up. 

A pair of crawlers entered, and I turned to see Morris the spider creature 
and the other human. They spotted us and hesitantly approached. I 
remembered I’d told them that I was going to kick their asses the next time 
I saw them. I waved them over and told the bodyguards to stand aside. 

The first thing I did was exchange fist bumps with both, adding them to 
my chat. I examined them each in turn. 

Pd already examined Morris Sp. His half human/half tarantula race 
was Called an Arachnid, and he was level-23. His class was something 
called a Freelance Psychiatrist. It was a psionic class. Those with psionic 
skills had excelled on the previous floor, but Morris here didn’t seem to 
have leveled much. 

The other was a human, early twenties with dark hair and tan skin. He 
had a Mediterranean look to him. Bobby D.J. He was a level-24 Spy. That 
was a rogue class, and the guy looked a little frazzled around the edges. He 
had an eye twitch, and his left hand never stopped trembling. I knew their 
quadrant was covered in traps. If Bobby was the only rogue in the party, he 
was probably their first line of defense. I wouldn’t want to be in his shoes. 

“Tell me about your quadrant,” I said after they got their drinks. The 
only one of the group who didn’t have alcohol was Donut, who was instead 
sipping on a regular Shirley Temple, chatting away with the Sledge, who 
grumbled happily in response to all of her declarations and observations. 

Morris did not fit in the booth, so instead the spider stood over the table. 
Katia didn’t say anything out loud, but she shivered every time the arachnid 
moved. I wasn’t a huge fan of spiders, either. 

“Our quadrant is terrible,” Morris said. “The whole place is a maze. A 
big, fuck-you-you’re-going-to-die maze. We start at the top, and the Crypt 
of Anser is at the bottom. That’s where the staircase is. We start in the 
village, which is really a cavern filled with these things called Nude 
Glabers. They’re undead mole rat creatures, but they’re naked with almost- 
human anatomy, and they’re hard to look at. That’s where we are now. 
There are dozens of paths away from town. Some of them are tunnels so 
tight I have to be pushed to get through. We got a quest to find one of the 
two maps, but we failed thanks to you.” 


“T only took one of the maps,” I said. “You failed because you were set 
up to fail.” 

“Maybe.” 

“Tell me about the other map, specifically the place where you were 
supposed to collect it.” 

Morris shrugged. “The other was a similar set up, but instead of a 
dirigible gnome, it was a pig. We thought it was a mob. It wasn’t until after 
we’d filled it with ‘nanas did we realize it’d been an NPC.” 

“Filled it with nanas?’” Katia asked. 

“We have a guy who shoots banana tree seeds from his hand. Yes, I 
know how stupid that sounds. But he’s a druid, and he causes the seeds to 
sprout really fast. They work great, but the range is really low.” 

“A pig? I knew it was a pet!” Donut said proudly. 

“Yeah, so we killed it. The map was in the same room, but out of reach. 
It was in the air quadrant. We were building a tool to take it. You can throw 
something through the quadrant barrier, but you can’t hold something like a 
giant stick or grabber through the wall. You can’t cast spells, either.” 

I remembered it’d let me roll a ball through the barrier, but the 
clockwork Mongos couldn’t get through, nor my hands. Mordecai had 
explained that the barriers wouldn’t allow anything under our direct or 
indirect control through. 

“But before we could figure it out, a two-humped camel thing, a 
Bactrian it was called, came in and saw the dead pig and freaked out. He 
upset the table with the map, and it fell to the ground, blowing closer to us. 
Then he ran away. We spent hours trying to figure out how to get it. But 
before we could, the damn room just blew up. And it said the map was 
destroyed. So we moved to the second map.” 

“But I beat you to it,” I said. “Have you seen the castle or crypt or 
whatever yet? The building you need to storm?” 

“No,” he said. “We need the map. It’s impossible to navigate without. 
Every new hallway has a different type of trap. Bobby here is good at 
disarming them, but it makes us slow. We just barely cleared the halls at the 
top, and we need to work our way down. It’s going to take a long time.” 

“Do you know who Quetzalcoatlus is? Wynne—the gnome you guys 
killed—mentioned him.” 

“Yeah,” Morris said. “I guess Anser was the emperor. He died, and 
when he did, they built this tomb for him. They threw his entire court and 


his wife in here even though they weren’t dead. Then they sealed it all up. 
Quetzalcoatlus is his wife, and she’s somewhere in here still. She’s some 
undead thing now. She’s non-corporeal. A ghost. She can travel through 
walls within the tomb. And I think she’s really pissed off. Every once in a 
while we can hear her, screaming. She sounds like a bird. After we failed 
the quest to get the map, we all got a quest to find and kill her. Nobody 
knows how to kill a damn ghost.” 

“Weird,” I said. “You need magic to kill ghosts.” We’d learned that from 
the krasue creatures on the third floor. In addition, there were extensive 
instructions on how to kill ghosts in the cookbook, including bomb types 
that would do the trick. “There are creatures here, on our level. They are 
trying to resurrect Quetzalcoatlus. They’re trying to get a spell that will give 
her flesh. They want to be able to physically touch her, I think. So they can 
gain some of her special powers.” 

“She’d probably be easier to kill if she had physical form,” Morris said. 

“Probably,” I agreed. “Too bad you killed the guy who knew how to 
cast the spell. So here’s where we stand. We have the gnomes floating over 
the entire world, and they bomb the shit out of everybody. On top of the 
temple, we have a few groups. The camels and the changelings. The 
changelings are pretending to be refugees, but they have some plan of their 
own that involves resurrecting the guardian of the subterranean level. On 
the ground we have somebody called the Mad Dune Mage, and we don’t 
know much about him yet. And then there’s one more castle in the water. 
From what little we know, it sounds like it’s underwater.” 

“Yeah, we-we keep getting water breathing scrolls and scrolls of d-d- 
disarm trap, which are useless unless you know for sure a trap is right 
there,” Bobby said, speaking for the first time. He had a stutter to his voice. 

“Okay,” I said. “Here’s the deal. I can see the map, and you’re right. It’s 
insane how complicated it is. There are tunnels. Rooms. Dead ends. Pits 
with spikes. It’s nuts. Katia here brought paper and a pencil, and she’s 
already started mapping out a path to get to the bottom. You two sit with her 
and Donut. It’ll take a few hours, but she will give you the map when she’s 
done. I highly suggest you try drawing it in your scratchpad while she maps 
it out, just in case you lose it. We need to work together. I will help any way 
I can. If you need something built, let me know, and I will make it happen.” 

Morris turned to Bobby and smiled. “And you said he was going to 
murder us.” 


“The d-d-day isn’t over yet.” 

I said my goodbyes to Donut and Katia, and I hit the Silk Road. I 
topped-off my explosive supplies and bought a few newly-available toys. 
From there, I exited the club and headed back to the saferoom. Outside, the 
wind whipped at the town’s covering. The storm was here. As I walked 
back, I received a pair of notifications. 

You have received a Bronze Benefactor Box from the Valtay 
Corporation. 

You have received a Silver Benefactor Box from The Open Intellect 
Pacifist Action Network, Intergalactic NFC. 


OceanofPDF.com 


Time to Level Collapse: 13 days, 13 hours. 


THE FIRST THING I DID WHEN I RETURNED TO BASE WAS OPEN MY TWO NEW 
boxes. I also had a fan box coming, but it hadn’t come in yet. Mordecai 
came out to greet me. 

I handed him the batch of mushrooms I’d taken from the desk in the 
basement. He looked at them and frowned. The system called them 
Mairmei Mushroom — Alchemy Material. All the description said was: 
These little guys are quite the trip. I assumed they were some sort of 
psychedelic. The cookbook had very little information on mushrooms. 
Mordecai was intrigued because he’d never seen this particular strain 
before. I gave him the batch so he could study it further. 

But first he wanted me to open the benefactor boxes in front of him so 
he could see what I’d received. 

“I’ve never heard of an anti-crawl group giving a benefactor box. I’ve 
known a few to sponsor crawlers over the generations, but that’s usually 
just to get people talking about their cause. They have no real investment in 
the crawler himself. A silver box, too. So whoever these guys are, they 
either have an endless supply of cash or they’re gambling a lot on you. 
Especially if you’re the only one they’ve sponsored.” 

“We’ll see,” I said. I wasn’t optimistic. I was in kind of an odd position. 
If they really were a pacifist, anti-crawl group, then I supported their cause. 


Sort of. Being a pacifist was one of those things that looked and sounded 
great when you were trying to get laid. Not so much when you were 
literally fighting for your life. I needed bombs and weapons and armor and 
shit that would help me kill as many of these fuckers as possible. I wasn’t 
going to get that from a goddamned group of hippies, no matter how 
sympathetic we were for each other. 

I started with the bronze Valtay box. The intricate box whirled and 
twirled as it opened with great fanfare. 

It was another pill. It looked identical to the last one they’d given me. I 
examined it. 

Valtay Corporation Neural Enhancer #275. Variant 35.j 

This item is compatible with your Morphology and Interface. 

Warning: This pill will cause a permanent change to your brain. 
This item cannot be unequipped or undone once installed. 

Warning: You do not have a Valtay Corporation Neural Interface 
installed. While your current wetware system is compatible with this 
Neural Enhancer, it is recommended you visit a Valtay Corporate 
Outreach Center to discuss upgrade options. Payment and Legacy 
plans available. Keeping the Best of You alive. 

Current wetware: Syndicate Crawl Version 47.002b.Human. 

Taking this pill will install the following upgrade to your interface: 

Current elevation and airspeed. 

That’s it? I thought. I didn’t dare say it out loud. I felt disappointment, 
but then I remembered how damn useful that last upgrade had been. 
Hopefully its utility would become self-evident. I popped the pill, looked up 
at the ceiling, and said, “Thanks, brain worm dudes.” 

I opened the next box. The first one had contained the logo for the 
Valtay. This next one had a spiral galaxy symbol with some alien lettering 
on it. Mordecai peered at the logo and shrugged. 

The box opened, revealing what looked like a sweet potato. 

“What the hell, man,” I said, picking it up. 

Toraline Root Vegetable. 

Alchemy Material. 

This rare tuber only grows in dirt that has been covered by lava. 
They are very rare. Nobody ever goes digging them up, either. You 
know why? Because they taste like dogshit, that’s why. They’re pretty 
much useless. In fact, fuck you for wasting my time with this. 


“What the hell is this, and why is it in a silver box and not a bronze 
one?” 

“Its origin and value and rarity and a hundred other factors determine 
the required box type,” Mordecai said, snatching it from my hand with a 
talon. “I’ve never seen this before. I’ve seen potions that require a similar 
vegetable. Most are salves for scaled creatures. Specialty healing.” 

“You think they want me to make a potion with this?” I asked. 

“Maybe. Or maybe an explosive. Or maybe it’s an inside joke,” 
Mordecai said. He passed it back to me. “Some aliens have really weird 
customs. For all we know, it’s a traditional marriage proposal. Still, I 
have... a lot... of potion recipes in my scratch pad. I’ll search through them 
and see if I can figure anything out. It’ll give me time to look for 
information on these mushrooms, too.” 

I nodded. I would do the same thing with the cookbook. There were 
pages and pages of potion recipes. I’d already read through the names of the 
potions and what they did, but I hadn’t committed the ingredient lists to 
memory. I tossed the toraline into my inventory. It was listed as Very Rare, 
but it had low value, equal with some of the unenchanted clothing items I 
hadn’t yet sold. 

I returned my gaze to the ceiling. “Thanks for the yam, mystery aliens. 
I’m more of a mashed potatoes guy, but this’ll do. I guess.” 

I returned my attention to the Valtay upgrade. I now had the ability to 
add my current speed and altitude to my UI. I dove into my interface and 
tried to figure it out. I clicked a toggle that only showed speed if I was 
moving more than six kilometers an hour. There were multiple displays 
showing different velocities at the same time, and I had no idea what the 
hell that meant. Luckily there was a toggle titled Relative Surface Speed. I 
clicked it, and all the other information disappeared, leaving only a single 
gauge that currently had me standing still. 

The elevation display was equally complicated. I turned it on, and it 
filled my screen with a page of information I did not understand. It didn’t 
have feet or miles as a unit of measurement, but it did have kilometers and 
meters, so I selected that. There were some very big numbers in there. I 
tried toggling Planetary Sea-level Only, but that was a mistake. It had me 
at just over -92,000 meters. I realized that meant I was standing 92 
kilometers under the surface of the planet. That was crazy. Was earth’s crust 


even that thick? Wasn’t it all magma and oil and gooey shit once you got 
deep enough? I’d never paid attention in geology class. 

After some adjusting, I finally found two different gauges that gave me 
what I needed. One was adjustable. I set it at 0.00, giving me a gauge to the 
surface of the tomb. The second was at 8,932 meters. It was labeled 
Gravitational Zone Sea Level. If I was reading it correctly, that meant we 
were nine kilometers above the water quadrant. That was damn high. 
Thankfully all the little things that came with such great heights weren’t in 
play here in the bubble, which seemed to be equally pressurized throughout. 
I didn’t even pretend to understand the science. If I was doing the 
conversion correctly in my head, that meant we were standing about the 
same height as the peak of Mount Everest. That also meant that the 
Necropolis of Anser was fucking huge. I didn’t know how tall the tallest 
building in the world was before the collapse, but it had to be way less than 
1,000 meters. 

We needed to give as much support to those assholes in the tomb as we 
could. Because if they failed, that meant we’d have to go in there once we 
figured out the gnome castle. And that was something I did not want to do. 


The storm ended, and the town survived. The camels did not retract the sails 
as usual. Langley told me they now had guards at the main gate, and the 
camels were setting up anti-air defenses all around the city. They still 
allowed us to come and go, but they interrogated everybody about grulke 
toads and gnomes, demanding to know if they’d seen any. 

We were now four hours from when the gnomes would know for certain 
the collateral was dead, and probably five from when the bombs would fall. 
The casual, laid-back atmosphere of the town had changed to that of a city 
under siege. 

I now had four modified missiles in my inventory. With Mordecai’s help 
along with my level-four sapper’s table, I’d created a missile that might 
reach high enough. We wouldn’t know until we tested it. And it just so 
happened a perfect opportunity to test it was about to present itself. 
Something that would help both us and Gwen’s team down below. 


Katia and Donut returned from the Desperado Club as I was standing 
outside of the Toe, waiting. They’d spent the entire two hours of the storm 
in the Desperado. Katia had a feather boa around her neck. Mongo was free, 
and he also had a boa, dangling freely from his collar. He kept snapping at 
it, and feathers were flying everywhere. Donut and Katia had gone into the 
Penis Parade together. 

“Really?” I asked. 

“Eight more visits, and I get a free dance from Anaconda!” Donut 
announced. 

“Wait, how much money are you guys spending at this place?” 

“Oh, oh, Carl, guess what? I got another box from Princess D’ Nadia!” 
Donut exclaimed, ignoring my question. She hopped up and down on 
Mongo’s back. “It’s only a bronze this time, but I bet it’ll be awesome!” 

“You haven’t gotten the one Loita mentioned?” 

“Not yet. She messaged and said it’ll come later today. She said the 
sponsor wants to make sure we survive the bombing before they send the 
prototype. Isn’t that exciting? I’m going to open Princess D’ Nadia’s present 
now!” She and Mongo scrambled inside. Katia and I watched her go. 

Katia looked up at the sky, which was still covered with the sails. In the 
twilight, the whole town was prematurely dark. “No bird yet?” 

“Not yet,” I said. “How’d it go with spider boy and the other guy?” 

Katia had given them a general map of the entire structure and a more 
detailed path to another town about halfway down to the crypt. Assuming 
we all survived the next 24 hours, they’d meet up again to get the rest. The 
lower half of the necropolis featured much-larger rooms, and oftentimes the 
map showed the only entrance and exit to each chamber was on the ceiling 
and the floor. They’d need ladders and ropes to descend. 

“They’re not as bad as Louis and Firas, but those subterranean guys are 
total trainwrecks,” Katia said. “Their stress levels are off the charts. It’s 
understandable, but they’re very tense. Too tense.” 

I laughed. “That’s what Mordecai said about you when we first met. He 
called you a train wreck. Also, we’re calling them the tomb raiders.” 

She did not find any of that funny. “If something happens to that Bobby 
guy, the entire team is dead. He’s the only one who can detect traps, and 
he’s already missed a few. They make others go in tunnels ahead because 
he’s too valuable, and they keep dying right in front of him. They described 
a trap where needles popped up from the floor and injected the crawler with 


a potion that filled his sinuses with flesh-eating beetles.” She shivered. 
“Maybe you can make some really low-level explosives for them, 
something they can roll down the hallways to set off the traps.” 

“They need a spell like Donut’s Clockwork Triplicate,” I said. 
“Something where they can make or control minions. The spider guy is a 
psionicist. He should try to find something. I bet there’s something in that 
town of theirs that’ll help them. Their situation sucks, but it’s not 
impossible.” 

Katia grunted. “They kept asking when they thought we might storm 
our castle. I have the impression they want to hold back and wait for us to 
have access so we can ‘help.’” 

I shook my head. Goddamnit. “We need to push them. We don’t have 
time for that.” 

“I agree, and I did. I lied and told them that we don’t expect to complete 
the air quadrant until time is almost up.” She looked at me, worry evident in 
her eyes. “At least I hope it was a lie.” 

I instinctively returned my gaze to the air. The protective sail, deflated 
balloon, whatever it was, shimmered in the meager light. A camel on stilts 
walked by, turning on lamps throughout the town. I knew the Wasteland 
was still over the water. But right now we were waiting for something else. 

“Tt’s coming,” Katia said. “I can see the dot on my map.” 

I heard the low, angry buzz of a flying creature. 

After my most recent discussion with Gwen on the land quadrant, I’d 
asked the Toe’s barkeep about the creature, but the camel had been reluctant 
to tell me anything. Juice Box, however, was happy to tell me all about the 
borough boss in exchange for a gold coin. 

The bird’s name was Ruckus, and she was a giant version of the more 
common buzz-ard. She came to roost nearby every night after the storms. 

The bird was half biological, half machine. A steampunk cyborg. Juice 
Box claimed she didn’t know why the mechanical birds lived around here, 
as everything else in the area was purely biological. She said they were 
either a failed gnome invention that had escaped during the second war, or 
it was something left over from the time before that. What she called the 
“treasure hunter” era. The waster patrols avoided Ruckus, but one of their 
responsibilities was to cull the regular-sized buzz-ards if they saw them. 

“Tf it flies over the city every night, why don’t they shoot it down with 
their anti-aircraft missiles?” Katia asked. 


“Apparently there used to be a third camel city,” I said. “They tried that, 
and it didn’t go well for them.” 

Katia went pale. “And you want to fight this thing?” 

I shrugged. “We’ll be like a mile away. I have a missile I need to test. 
Don’t worry. It’ll be fine.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


PART OF ME FELT BAD ABOUT STEALING FROM LITTLE SKARN AND HIS 
burgeoning charge-people-to-look-through-his-telescope business, but we 
didn’t have time to debate the morality of the issue. I knocked on the door 
of his house to talk to him. I wanted to make sure Flint the adult wasn’t 
there—he wasn’t—and I told the kid that I just wanted to check in on him. 

“Tf they start to drop bombs, I want you to run to the Toe, okay? Tell all 
your friends. Go there. Nowhere else.” 

Skarn turned into the creepy human child form. “Flint says we’re 
supposed to go to the Spit and Swallow or the Wiggle Room.” 

I knew neither of those were true saferooms, and they wouldn’t be safe. 

“No. The Toe. Nowhere else. I will give you and every one of your 
friends a whole gold piece if they go there instead. It’ll be the safest place 
in town. And you can tell Flint to go there, too.” 

While I talked to him, Donut scaled the wall and leaped to the roof of 
the home, stealing the Gnomish farseer telescope. She stole it in ten seconds 
flat. She was in and out. 

Pd told Donut to leave thirty gold pieces on the roof as payment, but 
she told me she’d “forgotten.” 

“Why don’t you tell them to go to the A.O.?” Donut asked. That was the 
only real saferoom tavern in town. It was in Weird Shit Alley. It stood for 
the Acrotomophilia Oasis. I didn’t know what that meant, but none of the 
other guys liked going over there. “The Toe isn’t a real saferoom either.” 

“No, it’s not. But our personal space is. We can fit a lot of camels in 
there.” 

“Mordecai’s not going to like that.” 


“Mordecai can suck it if he doesn’t like it,” I said. 

Donut didn’t have a response. She was still a little salty about the 
contents of her benefactor box, though she was putting on a brave face. The 
box had been empty, but then she’d received a notification that her 
sunglasses had received an update. An update that greatly enhanced her 
ability to determine the surface and the subsurface temperature of anything 
she looked at with precise detail. 

Mordecai said that was a common tactic of benefactors. It cost a literal 
fortune to send exceptional items. It was more economical to send an item 
on one floor, and then send an upgrade for that same item on the next. And 
then another. Eventually, you’d end up with an item that would be 
Legendary or even Celestial box-worthy. The cost of four or five silver and 
bronze boxes was a fraction of the cost of sending a single Legendary. 

Of course you’d have to survive through five floors to get the benefit. It 
was possible for them to send more than one box a floor, but according to 
Mordecai, the cost of that was even more astronomical. 

In addition to its intended purpose—to help Donut root out changelings 
—TI could see multiple useful applications of the upgrade, including the 
ability to find weaknesses on mobs. She could possibly use it to help me 
find traps and secret doors. She could set parameters and get a warning 
when things reached certain temperatures. There were dozens of options. 
Unfortunately, Donut had little patience for all of that. I couldn’t wear them, 
so Katia and I were baby-stepping her through customizing the glasses. 

By the time we reached the town’s exit, which was now guarded by 
multiple dromedarians, she had figured out the overlay system. 

Donut: TWO OF THE GUARDS ARE DIFFERENT THAN THE 
OTHERS. 

I still didn’t know if all this changeling/dromedarian drama really meant 
anything. As always, there were layers upon layers of backstory, and only 
some of it was relevant. I knew from the last floor it was important to learn 
as much as we could because it usually revealed victory paths that would be 
otherwise obscured. But I couldn’t help but wonder if we’d already burned 
out any benefit we could get from this storyline when the tomb raider dudes 
killed the collateral guy. 

I suspected that it didn’t matter anymore. But if it didn’t, why did 
Princess D’Nadia spend money to send Donut that upgrade? She possibly 
was as much in the dark as we were. In fact, considering the lack of people 


in this bubble, that was a very distinct possibility. She sent the upgrade 
because she thought she was being helpful and not because she knew 
something we didn’t. 

We had an hour until it was fully dark. Once night descended, more 
mobs appeared. We wanted to get this done before then. The moment we 
were outside the gates, we went to work assembling the Chariot. It took 
four minutes this time. 

The Chariot had a new addition since the last time we’d tested it. I 
mounted a four-chamber missile tube to the right of my seat. My seat was 
raised, and I could swivel 360 degrees. I controlled the Y axis of the tube 
with a handle on the side, allowing me to swing the launcher up and down. 
They were fired by me pulling a pin on the back. There was only a one- 
second delay between me pulling the pin and the missile firing, which 
wasn’t ideal. I needed to pull my hand away quickly, or it would be turned 
into a piece of charcoal. And I needed to be careful about where the back of 
the launcher was pointing when I fired. It’d be easy to accidentally blast the 
back of Katia’s head with flames. I had a better design in my head, but it 
would take too long to build. As always, safety came last. 

Thanks to the neighborhood map we’d received from the dead goose, I 
could now also see the boss’s location. She was only about a half of a mile 
east of town, settled right atop a sand dune. She was just sitting there, 
recharging her batteries or whatever it was cyborg death birds did at night. 

“She’s too close,” I said. “We’ll need to go west. See if we can get a 
mile and a half away.” 

We wanted to see how far the missiles could go. I knew I couldn’t get 
far enough to test the full range, but I wanted to make sure the second stage 
portion actually worked. I knew in real-world conditions, the achievable 
propulsion distance was different between horizontal and vertical flight, but 
Mordecai seemed to think that didn’t matter. Especially since we were using 
the magical guided upgrades on each of the four missiles. 

“If we move too far from town, we won’t be able to retreat as easily if 
the missiles don’t work,” Katia said. “I hope you know what you’re doing.” 
She eased forward on the throttle, and we were off, moving across the 
desert. The chariot moved smoothly and quietly. She gradually increased 
the speed, the hot wind whipping at our faces. 

“There,” I said, pointing to a raised dune near the center of the bowl. 
We climbed easily, coming to a stop. From our position, I had a good view 


of the entire area. Far to my right, the remnants of the Bactrian town 
continued to smolder. A few of the male thorny devils lumbered about, but 
they were all too far away to bother us. 

High above, I caught the twinkle of the Wasteland. It was on the far 
edge of the bubble, glowing red against the dark sky. I knew once the sun 
rose, it’d be back, almost directly above our position now. 

“Hand me the telescope, Donut.” 

“T don’t like this, Carl,” Donut said. She sat on a little shelf just behind 
my head. “It’s still hot out here, and the sand gets everywhere. It’s five 
degrees hotter in the middle of the bowl than it is on the edges. I don’t 
understand why the ground is still so hot now that the sun is sinking away. 
It is not acceptable.” 

I was starting to regret the new upgrade to her sunglasses. She’d been 
commenting on the temperature difference of items for an hour straight 
now. 

“Just keep an eye out for mobs and give me the damn telescope.” 

She grumbled some more but then produced the large, heavy scope. It 
had a clamp on the bottom, designed to be attached to either a table or the 
gunwale of a boat or airship. I attached the clamp to the left side of the chair 
and swung it over. I could use the telescope and aim the launcher at the 
same time. 

I turned the chair 90 degrees and sighted the scope, looking for the 
borough boss. 

“There you are,” I said, zooming in. 

Even in the dwindling light, the magical telescope gave me an excellent 
view of the beast. Ruckus. The house-sized bird sat on the ground, head 
hanging low like it was asleep. The body of the creature vibrated up and 
down, like an engine. 

I was expecting it to be more vulture-like, but it resembled a colossal 
hawk. A hawk wearing steampunk-style body armor. A real beak protruded 
from a brass, pipe covered helmet that obscured the bird’s eyes. A few 
wheels and cogs spun along the exterior of the armored main body. The 
folded wings on the sides of the creature appeared to be regular, organic 
wings. 

I moved the telescope slightly, focusing on the giant bird’s main 
weapon. The regular-sized buzz-ards flew around with a chainsaw-like 
device attached underneath their bodies. They swooped down and cut 


through anything that tried to fight them. I knew Gwen’s team had a 
difficult time with them, and even the veteran waster patrol had to work to 
take one of them out. They used their guided missiles on those things more 
than they did against gnomish airplanes. 

Ruckus had something similar, but much larger. The weapon sat on the 
ground next to the bird. It was permanently attached to the monster by a 
pair of thick cables which I knew it could retract and lengthen. It wasn’t a 
chainsaw, but more like a twenty-five-foot-long stick with ten spinning 
buzzsaws on it. The weapon hung vertically under the bird as it flew. I’d 
seen something similar once attached to a helicopter. They used it to easily 
sheer through trees and branches along power lines in remote areas. Gwen 
had said the flying multi-buzzsaw had trashed their under construction siege 
towers in seconds. 

I moved the telescope back to the bird. I zoomed in one more tick, and 
the description popped up. 

Ruckus. Spring-operated Chicken Hawk Sentinel. 

Level 55 Borough Boss! 

This is a bereft Minion of Shamus Chaindrive. 

The great bugbear treasure hunter Shamus Chaindrive was known 
as both a paranoid and a greedy bastard. Having been betrayed one too 
many times, he no longer trusted any living soul. That is why his crew 
was always comprised of constructs and automatons. 

He dedicated his life to hunting down long-lost treasures and 
artifacts. He prized one item above all others. 

The Gate of the Feral Gods. Said to be buried in the long-lost 
Necropolis of Anser. 

Chaindrive set out to find the tomb. He boarded his great 
submarine and sank beneath the waves, vowing to never surface again 
until he had his prize. 

It took the bugbear almost twenty years to find the tomb, poking up 
like a monolith from a desert island. Using his submarine, he docked it 
against an underwater entrance directly adjacent to the main chamber 
of the trap-filled tomb. He quickly learned that he was not the first to 
arrive. A young mage had recently landed on the island and was 
attempting to magically burrow into the tomb. A colony of dirigible 
gnomes were settled in the area. All sought the treasures held within 
the tomb. All had failed so far. 


Chaindrive unleashed his greatest weapon in an attempt to slow the 
efforts of his competitors. Ruckus had been stored in stasis in the hold 
of his great submarine. The self-replicating, spring-operated 
automaton was given the task to kill all who wished to steal 
Chaindrive’s prize. 

Now that the bugbear is long dead, the sentinel chicken hawk is 
content to spend its day circling around the island and being an all- 
around asshole. The regular residents of the island are smart enough to 
leave this powerful boss alone. The fact you’re reading this means 
you’re not one of the smart ones. 

“Strange,” I said to Donut and Katia. “It says the boss comes from the 
underwater guy, who is dead. I think the ‘castle’ is a giant submarine. Also, 
it sounds like there’s a hidden treasure in...” 

System Message: Please Wait. 

The world froze for about half of a second. It was like the beginning of 
a boss battle. But nothing happened, and the short glitch was over as 
quickly as it started. 

System Message: Thank you for your patience. You may now 
resume normal activities. 

“What the hell was that about?” I asked, looking around. 

“T don’t know. Weird,” Katia said. 

Carl: Mordecai, did you feel that? Also, do you know what the Gate 
of the Feral Gods is? 

Mordecai: I felt it. It happens. It’s usually not a glitch, but a 
gameplay timeout so dueling routines can clarify or reconcile rule 
conflicts. But no, never heard of the gate thing. But remember what I 
said about the word “feral?” Stay away from anything marked that. 
It’s always bad news. 

Carl: What about artifacts? It said the gate is one. 

Mordecai: Odd. An artifact is a legendary or celestial-tier item one 
may find sitting around the dungeon or as dropped loot. Like I told you 
before, most of the best items in the game come from boxes for the first 
several floors. After the sixth floor, dropped loot starts to get much 
better and more magical. Artifacts start popping up around the eighth 
or ninth floor. They’re usually very powerful items. 

Carl: Eighth floor, you say? I can’t help but notice we’re only on 
the fifth. It says it’s an item inside the necropolis under our feet. Do you 


think that had anything to do with that weird pause? 

Mordecai: Hmm. Maybe. I’m not surprised, honestly. This is like 
what we discussed a while ago. The showrunners control the storylines, 
but the AI picks out the specific loot. The AI can, and will, adjust 
aspects of the story to fine-tune the difficulty level or to keep the game 
“fair.” If you get what I’m saying. 

Carl: 10-4. Talk soon. We’re about to test the missiles. 

“Uh, Carl,” Donut said, pointing with her paw. “Ruckus is moving.” 


I leaned back into the eyepiece. 

Maybe it was a coincidence. Maybe it was that weird glitch. Or maybe 
it was just the system being an asshole. But Ruckus, who had been drifting 
asleep just a minute ago, was now awake and looking right in our direction. 
He screamed loudly into the almost-night sky. He moved from the top of 
the dune and spread out his wings, which glittered. Flecks of metal 
intertwined with the feathers. It had a wingspan of three train cars. On the 
ground next to the massive bird, the line of buzzsaws started to spin up. The 
sound was goddamn terrifying. Even at a mile and a half away, we could 
hear them. The bird started to pump its wings in an attempt to take to the 
air. 

“Shit, shit, get ready to fire,” I said. I quickly pulled a missile out and 
jammed it into the launch tube. 


The world once again froze. Haunting, eerie music started to play, echoing 
across the desert. 

B-b-b-boss battle! 

The boss battle sequence played out with our portraits floating high over 
the desert. But when they played the description of Ruckus, it had changed. 

Ruckus. Spring-operated Chicken Hawk Sentinel. 

Level 55 Borough Boss! 

It’s a bird! It’s a landscaping tool! It’s a goddamned death robot! 


OP Ruckus is a left-over, anti-boat, anti-everything else security 
and scout automaton that has lost contact with the Akula. Lost contact, 
that is, until now. Having awakened and been given new orders, it is 
now seeking out enemies of the captain. 

And you, my soon-to-be-buzzsawed-to-death-friends, are enemies of 
the captain. 

“You woke it up, Carl,” Donut said. “The description doesn’t say 
anything about it being a bereft minion.” 

“What the hell happened?” I exclaimed as I aimed with the eyepiece. 
The description had changed quite a bit. Ruckus flapped its gargantuan 
wings a few more times and took to the air. The massive buzzsaw started to 
lift from the ground. 

Gwen: Hey bomber guy. Did you feel that weird glitch? Anyway, 
thought you might want to know. Something is happening in the water 
quadrant. The water is bubbling. The whole ocean is frothing like the 
mouth of a rabid weasel. Somebody is doing something under there. 
You guys find that giant buzzard yet? 

Carl: Looking at him right now. Talk soon. 

I put my hand over the back of the two-foot-long missile, and a tooltip 
popped up. 

Target missile? 

I mentally clicked yes. 

Designate target. 

Warning: Once locked, you may not remove this designation. 

It was awkward keeping my right hand on the back of the missile and 
my left on the controls of the telescope. It didn’t leave my hands free to 
adjust the chair. I focused on the center mass of Ruckus just before he flew 
out of the viewfinder and clicked Target. 

Target locked, bitches! 

The missile started to blink. 

“Fire in the hole. Watch your eyebrows,” I said. I grasped the pin on the 
back of the missile, and I pulled the tab. 

Whoosh. 

A gout of flames rushed from the back of the tube as the missile 
rocketed away, dipping slightly and then rising into the night air. My whole 
right side flashed with pain as I was burned by the exhaust. Donut yowled 
in surprise and scrambled to the left. 


“Goddamnit,” I growled at the pain. It hadn’t done any real damage, but 
it had hurt. We need a better way to do this. “You okay, Donut?” 

“What do you think, Carl? You know I’m flammable, right? Warn me 
next time.” 

“T did warn you. Stay to my left.” 

The bright, crackling exhaust lit up the desert momentarily, turning the 
deep dusk into day. I grabbed a second rocket and shoved it into the tube. 

“Go!” I said to Katia, who had already thrown the Chariot into gear and 
was accelerating down the back of the dune. 

I looked over my shoulder, watching the missile curve in midair and 
then swoop up toward the boss, who was still gaining altitude. The giant, 
multi-buzzsaw swung wildly back and forth in the air as Ruckus pumped its 
wings. 

We’d replaced the missile’s chemical propellent with one improved by 
Mordecai. When it burned itself out, the back of the rocket would, in theory, 
drop off and continue to coast for a few seconds. Then the second stage 
would light the back of the rocket, effectively doubling its range. 

The original rockets had a shitty payload. The warheads were the 
equivalent of a quarter stick of goblin dynamite, which was nothing. At first 
I hadn’t thought I could improve the design, but after recycling a few 
impact hob-lobbers, I realized I could simplify the triggering device, which 
gave me much more room to add the boom stuff. Each missile now packed 
the same punch as a full stick of hobgoblin dynamite, which was enough to 
kill almost any regular mob. 

We needed these things to have a range of about three miles if we 
wanted to fire them from the surface and hit one of the knock-knocks they 
had parked underneath the gnome’s castle. But first I needed to see if the 
two-stage rocket was even viable. If this worked, and we got out of here, we 
could build a few slightly-longer missiles between now and morning. 

The missile zeroed in on the giant boss. The flames in the back started 
to sputter just before the missile reached the still-climbing target. 

Come on, come on. 

“Yes!” I said as I saw the first sparks of the second stage belch from the 
back of the now-distant rocket. I pumped my fist into the air. 

But then the missile abruptly blew. It detonated a few hundred feet short 
of the target. 


“Fuck. Fuck, fuck, fuck me, fuckity fuck,” I yelled, turning my fist into a 
middle finger. Ruckus, still climbing, flew over the explosion, unharmed. 
The buzzsaw cleaved the newly-formed cloud in two. 

We used a tiny charge to drop the back fin of the rocket. It appeared that 
explosion was too powerful. Or something in the second-stage propellant 
caused the warhead to blow prematurely. I didn’t know. I wouldn’t know 
until we tested it. But that did us no good right now. I had three missiles 
left. Three missiles that all of a sudden had a much-shorter range. We’d 
never be able to hit the Wasteland from the ground. Not with these things. 

“New plan,” I said. “Turn around and drive straight for it.” I pulled the 
third and fourth missiles and loaded them into the launcher. I wanted to 
avoid storing explosives outside my inventory if I could, but I needed all 
three of them now. 

A second pair of eyes and mouth appeared on the back of Katia’s head. 
The eyes protruded from her scalp on a pair of little stalks. 

“Are you crazy?” she demanded from the second mouth as we hit a 
bump. The Chariot sailed into the air and crashed hard into the ground. The 
back tread whined, blew up sand, and continued on its way. 

“Holy shit, Katia,” I said, recoiling at the sudden appearance of a 
second face. “That’s really fucking weird. Do it.” 

She grumbled but started the wide turn. If she turned any tighter, the 
whole thing would flip. Ahead, Ruckus screeched into the dark. The 
buzzsaw swung back and forth, a pendulum of death. We watched as it 
cleaved a thorny devil in two. Blood geysered across the desert as the 
massive bird zoomed toward us. 

I quickly went through the three remaining rockets and locked all three 
onto the boss. One on the joint of where the left wing met the body, one on 
the exposed neck of the creature, and a third on the lower area where the 
cable extended from the creature and attached to the buzzsaw. 

The monster aimed right at us. It loomed like a tidal wave. The buzzsaw 
was impossibly loud. It’d be on us in seconds. 

“When I fire, bank left and floor it,’ I yelled. “Donut, watch out. I’m 
firing now.” 

The screaming blades lined up with our path, waving back and forth. 
The damn thing was huge. Each blade was the size of a truck tire. The acrid 
stench of overworked machinery filled the air. 


I pulled all three pins at once. All three rockets burst from the tubes. 
They dipped, arced, and then all corkscrewed through the air. All three hit 
the boss at the same moment as we turned away. The boss exploded high 
over our heads. The Chariot rocked as we turned too sharply but Katia held 
out her arm in the opposite direction, and a heavy weight appeared in her 
hand, causing the vehicle to right itself. She dropped the extra mass, and we 
zoomed away. 

Nice, I thought. 

The buzzsaw swung wildly as Ruckus tumbled. It flew into the air, 
arcing in our direction. Fuck me. Donut fruitlessly shot a magic missile at 
the approaching blades. 

Just as the triple explosions rocked the creature, its left wing blew off 
right at the joint. Metal showered. It screeched as it spun, wrapping up in 
the cable for the saw. The screaming weapon suddenly jerked away and 
then pinwheeled through the air with the momentum of the plummeting 
bird. The momentum of the swinging weapon caught the wreckage and 
pulled it along, flying in our direction. They overshot us and hit the ground 
with a mighty crash as Katia slammed the gear into reverse. 

Ruckus broke apart in a shower of blood and mechanical parts. The 
giant buzzsaw, suddenly free of the bird, continued to whine as it hit and 
bounced on the ground. The front of the weapon bucked against the rocks 
and sand, still buzzing. Still cutting. The whole thing spun several times 
then stuck itself sideways into the rock of the tomb. The two front blades on 
the weapon stopped spinning, but the rest showered dirt and debris twenty 
feet into the sky, like a truck stuck in the mud. 

The Winner! Notification appeared. I assumed the music stopped, but I 
couldn’t hear it over the whine of the buzzsaws. Ruckus had splattered all 
over the desert. There was metal and machinery and thick, sticky blood 
everywhere. 

“T feel as if I didn’t do anything productive in that battle,” Donut said as 
we watched the buzzsaw. “Mordecai says I need to be doing more, not less. 
I’m already two spots behind you, Carl. I don’t want to fall off the top ten 
like Katia did.” 

I reached up and scratched her on the head. 

I turned to Katia, who was staring at the shower of dirt and rock only 
twenty feet in front of us. “That was pretty slick what you did there,” I said. 
“With the counter weight to keep us from flipping.” 


She nodded. She looked like she was about to throw up. “Why did you 
make me drive toward it? The missiles worked. They would’ve worked if 
we kept going in the other direction. The second stage doesn’t work, but the 
first stage still has a really good range.” 

“I wanted to make sure they hit accurately,” I said. “Mordecai said 
sometimes they’re not all that precise. I didn’t want to damage the prize.” 

“Prize?” she asked. But I could tell she knew what I was talking about. 
The still-chugging chainsaw rumbled on the ground. The thing had to be 25 
feet long. 

“Get your backpack ready. We’re going to bulk you up so you can lift it 
and stick it into your inventory.” 

“Carl, you know how you’re always complaining that they portray 
you...” 
She didn’t finish. A mighty rumble filled the world. An earthquake. I 
thought at first we were being bombed, but this was something different. 
Something deep in the bones of the world. I looked worriedly at the 
buzzsaw, but it remained firmly dug into the ground. 

Bubble Notification. The Bridge of the Akula has been successfully 
occupied. The Water Quadrant has been liberated! 

All give congratulations to the crawler who successfully took the 
throne room. All hail crawler Chris Andrews 2! 

All crawlers who originated in the Water Quadrant may now freely 
travel to the other quadrants. 

The world rumbled again as Donut and I looked at each other. 

“Chris,” I said. “Chris is in here with us.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


OceanofPDF.com 


STAGE 2 OF 4. STILL ON THE GNOMES. 


“So CHRIS IS FROM TEAM MEADOW LARK?” KATIA ASKED. “HE ENTERED 
the dungeon with Imani and Elle?” 

“Yes,” I said as we drove back to Hump Town. We’d looted everything 
we could from the wreckage. It was a lot, including almost a ton of 
dwarfish aluminum, which was a light but strong metal. The giant buzzsaw 
was powered by the same type of dwarfish battery that ran the Chariot. I 
pulled the battery, and the whole thing shut off. There was a cable that 
attached the saw to the chicken hawk, but it appeared the weapon worked if 
it was attached or not. The thing was lighter than it looked, and Katia 
managed to pull it all into her inventory. 

We'd also obtained the field guide from the borough boss corpse. We 
could now see the level and description of all the mobs in the area. The 
guide covered the entire bowl. Right now, in the dark of night, multiple, 
fist-sized monsters called Night Frights were emerging from the sand 
dunes. They were everywhere. They were similar to the rot sticker mobs we 
faced on the first floor. They ran, attached themselves to you, and exploded. 
Katia and Donut sniped at them as we drove, but we didn’t stop to engage. 

“When Elle and the others were still old,” I continued, “there were four 
people taking care of them. There had been more, but we never met the 
original crew. They were Imani and Yolanda, who were nurses, and the 
brothers Chris and Brandon who’d both been maintenance guys at the old 
folk’s home. Yolanda died protecting us from the rage elemental, and 
Brandon died protecting the team from shade gremlins.” I swallowed, 
remembering that last note Brandon had sent. I had it saved in my scratch 
pad, and I often found myself pulling it up and reading it. He’d written it 
after he’d gotten into a fight with his brother, and his brother had left the 
team. I thought of one passage in particular: 

He was never much of a talker. Mom said there was something wrong 
with him, maybe he was slow. But he ain't slow. And even if he was... I said 
something stupid, and he got mad. He left, and now it’s too late to tell him I 
love him. I never said it. I’m about to die, and it’s all I can think about. 

I’d promised myself I’d give the message to Chris if I could, but there 
was obviously something going on with him. He’d taken a race called an 
Igneous. A rock creature similar to the Sledge and Bomo. He’d stopped all 


communication with Imani, and Odette had tried to send me a warning 
about him. 

He’d also killed Frank Q soon after Frank had given me the Ring of 
Divine Suffering. According to the Sledge, Chris had sat next to Frank at 
the counter of the Desperado Club. They’d talked, and then Chris had 
reached over and crushed his head. He’d simply gotten up and walked out 
after. He was now banned from the club. 

That was not the crawler I remembered. I remembered him as a quiet 
man, dedicated to protecting his friends and brother. He’d sobbed after the 
boss battle with the tuskling knights. There was no way the old Chris 
would’ve done something like that. Imani said his personality had changed 
soon after he’d chosen his race. 

I sent a message to Imani that we’d located him. And while I couldn’t 
yet go seek him out, there was a possibility he could come here. I didn’t 
know how I felt about that. Imani seemed to think he wanted to team up 
with me, but I feared he was too dangerous. I’d already had more than 
enough of that bullshit on the last floor with Hekla. We had enough to 
worry about already. It was just too much. 

Imani: Whatever you decide, keep me updated. He still ignores all 
of my messages. I hope the real Chris is still in there somewhere. He’s 
the only non-resident left. 

Carl: Will do. How’s the boating going? 

Imani: Don’t ask. We need a boat with armor. Elle has figured out 
how to use an ice spell to protect us from the fireballs, but we still can’t 
get close to the oil rig. There are monsters in the water and pirate orc 
archers everywhere. 

Carl: What about approaching it from underwater? Build a sub. 

Imani: You’ve been talking to Elle, haven’t you? Carl, do you know 
how crazy that is? Build a sub, like that’s an easy thing to do. 

Carl: Speaking of Chris, he has a submarine. I can’t imagine he’d 
be able to get it to you, but maybe he has some knowledge we don’t. 
Anyway, if you need a torpedo or something, let me know. We can meet 
up at the Desperado and trade it. 

Imani: We can trade using the shop interface in our personal space, 
too. We just bought it thanks to Donut’s advice. You can list something 
for private sale, so we don’t have to meet face-to-face to trade. The only 


problem is that it doesn’t let you just give stuff away. It won’t let you 
trade it away for less than 50% of its value. 

Carl: We’ll figure it out. Be safe. 

Imani: You too. And Carl? 

Carl: Yeah? 

Imani: Don’t kill him. Please. He’s changed, but he’s still my friend. 
He’s still Brandon’s brother. 


We stood near the collapsed remains of town hall. The dromedarian named 
Henrik stood nearby, directing the rescue efforts. 

Donut: HE’S A CHANGELING. IT SAYS HE’S LEVEL 30, BUT 
HIS HEAD GLOWS EVEN HOTTER THAN THE OTHER GUYS. 
CAN THEY HIDE THEIR LEVELS? 

Carl: Yes, especially if they’re really strong. 

Donut: YOU CAN COOK AN EGG ON THAT GUY’S HEAD. 

Henrik was the one who’d been attempting to “convince” Wynne the 
gnome into using his spell to resurrect the ghost. I figured he was the leader 
guy, and we set out to find him. We didn’t have to search hard. The older 
dromedarian stood over the wreckage, shouting at the others to keep 
digging in the smoldering remains. The creature looked absolutely 
exhausted. Even though he was a changeling, the weight of their current 
situation was etched deep onto his dromedarian face. 

They still hadn’t gotten to Wynne’s body. They were desperately trying 
to find him. 

There was a half an hour left until the sun rose. The dull light of the 
Wasteland was almost back over the bowl, moving toward its spot in the 
center. 

I walked up to the camel and didn’t waste any time. 

“How does the collateral work?” 

The large camel looked down to regard me. “You should leave town the 
moment the light hits. It is no longer safe.” 

“There’s nowhere to go,” I said. 

“Then go to a shelter. Buy a woman. We do not have much time. Now 
leave us be.” 


“Hey, I’m not asking for fun. How does the collateral work? Do you 
drag the gnome out so the gnomes can see him through one of their fancy 
telescopes or what?” 

He narrowed his eyes. “You are the one who rented the telescope from 
young Skarn, are you not? Are you also the one who attempted that poor 
subterfuge with the grulke? If your goal was to kill everyone, 
congratulations. You win. These poor bastards just don’t know it yet. If 
you’ve come to gloat in your victory, get it over with. I am too old and too 
tired to engage.” 

“Look, I only have one purpose here, and that’s to stop the gnomes. I’m 
trying to help.” 

A dromedarian stuck his head up from the wreckage. “The entrance to 
the basement is sealed off,” he called. “It’s not from the fire. Part of the 
necropolis wall slid closed and sealed off the room. We can get through, but 
it’ll take some time.” 

“We do not have time,” Henrik growled at the other camel. 

“Look,” I said. “We can stop the gnomes. But you have to help me help 
you. I need to know how they know the collateral is still alive.” 

Carl: Donut. I need a boost from your charm. 

Donut leaped to my shoulder and looked up at the camel. “We will be 
able to save this town if you tell us.” She lowered her voice to a stage 
whisper. “We don’t care which ones of you are real camels and which ones 
are changelings. I don’t know why you’d want to pretend to be something 
so large and smelly, but that’s not our business.” 

He gave only the slightest hint of surprise. But I could feel it. The way 
she manipulated NPCs sometimes was almost a tangible thing. You could 
feel the tension slide away. I could see the wheels turning in his head. He 
seemed to come to a decision. He pulled a little pocket watch out from his 
robes and then quickly put it away. 

“The alarm goes off on the watch, and I open it up. There is a mirror. 
The gnomish Commandant is on the other side. He makes a symbol with his 
fingers. I show this to the collateral, and he tells me a time. I then switch the 
hands on the clock to the correct time. Commandant Kane owns the watch’s 
twin, and I believe the movement on the clock is mirrored. So when I 
change the time on Henrik’s watch, the hands also move on the other clock. 
It is a code we do not understand. Only then do the gnomes know Wynne is 
alive and we have bought ourselves another day.” 


It wasn’t lost on me that he’d just referred to himself in third person. 

“A code?” I asked. I remembered that Wynne had pretty much offed 
himself by tricking those crawlers into killing him. It had been both clever 
and desperate. “And he cooperated with it?” 

“He did for years. It was only when we moved him to the chamber 
below the town hall did he start to resist. Only when he understood that the 
dynamic of his situation had changed. So he stopped cooperating. We’ve 
had to drug him to force compliance. It’s been getting harder. He has grown 
a tolerance for the mushroom. We have to feed him more every day.” 

There was a lot to unpack there. Mordecai said he hadn’t yet figured out 
what the mushrooms did, but he was doing some alchemy that would help 
determine all their uses. Apparently just eating them raw helped with 
getting people to do what you wanted. He’d already said a lot of 
mushrooms had that effect, but that was more of a secondary purpose, 
especially when the system labeled it as an alchemy item. He said the mind 
control effects weren’t very reliable, but apparently they’d worked well 
enough in this case. 

“Where’s the real Henrik?” 

He looked at me with impassive eyes. “Do you really wish me to 
answer that?” 

“Did the Bactrians do the same thing?” I asked. “Did they also have a 
watch?” According to Morris, they’d had some sort of pig collateral. 

“No,” Henrik said. “They had a different sort of indemnity with the 
gnomes. It was a favorite pet swine of the Commandant’s daughter. I do not 
know the full nature of their deal, but I believe they were required to bring 
the animal out to sun itself once a day. Once it was observed via farseer, 
they were saved another day.” 

“Can’t you guys turn to pigs? Why didn’t you go over there?” Donut 
asked. “One of you snorting around each day for a couple of minutes, and 
everybody is happy. The gnomes would never know.” 

For the first time, Henrik cracked a smile. “That was the problem, little 
one. When our village was destroyed, the bactrians did not take us in. What 
you suggested would also be thought of by the gnomes. They would not 
tolerate our presence for that very reason. The dromedarians were reluctant, 
but they are, in their hearts, good people. They took us in.” 

“Much good that did them,” I muttered. 


Henrik looked me dead in the eye. “Sometimes we do things that are not 
of our nature to protect our own.” 

I felt a chill, but only for a moment. I remembered what Mordecai had 
said about these guys, that they were basically doing this so they could 
resurrect some ancient monster and touch it and add it to their libraries. 
That wasn’t a very noble cause. Still, something about that story was 
nagging at me. I had the sense there was more to it than that. Now was not 
the time to delve into it. 

I pointed at the box-shaped anti-aircraft battery atop of the wall. “Those 
things can’t protect the town?” 

“From individual airships? Yes. Not a full bombardment from the 
dreadnaught.” 

We had a few options here. There was a code of some sort. The gnomes 
gave a hand gesture, and Wynne told the dromedarians what time to put into 
the clock. That was just the sort of thing Katia and Mordecai could figure 
out. 

But probably not in the time we had left. They’d have to know what all 
the former question and answers were, and even as charmed as he was right 
now, we’d never get this Henrik guy to sit down and give us the 
information. 

Another option was to just let the town get bombed to hell. As long as 
we stayed in our personal space, we’d be fine. We’d save as many of these 
assholes as we could, and then we’d figure out what to do next from there. I 
knew with some more time I could probably build a missile that went high 
enough. And who knew? Maybe once both of the towns were gone, they’d 
land the damn ship and give us the opportunity to storm it the old fashioned 
way. 

But it felt wrong. And we’d only be able to keep a handful of the town’s 
residents sheltered using the saferoom method. 

And even if we did protect most of them by crowding everyone into our 
space, eventually we’d have to kick them out. And then what? 

I looked up and stared at the fabric ceiling of the town. 

“Can you talk to that commandant guy using the watch?” 

“No sound, but we can exchange written messages. We often speak that 
way.” 

“Have they ever sent a representative? Like an emissary?” I 
remembered reading once about hostages and ransoms during the Hundred 


Years’ War. Oftentimes the whole thing ended up in disaster, but sometimes 
there were negotiations that resulted in a ransom paid, which required both 
parties to temporarily trust each other. 

“Yes. They do often. There is an ambassador. Leon the Commissar. He 
comes to inspect. He has a spell he casts to make sure the collateral is not a 
changeling. I believe they fear we will one day break the code between him 
and the Commandant.” 

My interest was piqued. “Luckily they haven’t cast the spell on you 
yet.” 

“Yes,” Henrik said. “They were scheduled for an inspection in two days, 
but I fear with these new developments, the situation will be accelerated.” 

From there, we spent a few minutes discussing the ambassador and how 
the inspections worked. This whole inspection thing was clearly put into the 
storyline as a way for us to be able to get to the Wasteland, but it was all 
screwed up now thanks to the death of Wynne. Still, as we talked, an idea 
started to form. 

Carl: Mordecai. If I need a parachute quickly, what are my 
options? 

Mordecai: How are your sewing skills? 

Carl: They’re shit. 

Mordecai: Then you need one of a few dozen potions, a flight 
ability, or a fall shield buff. Or you can turn Katia into a hang glider. 

Carl: Yeah, I don’t think she’s going to go for that. Do you have the 
materials for a potion? 

Mordecai: Pm looking at the stock right now. I don’t have the 
Feather Fall materials. Those are common potions later on, but the 
seed pods I need are scarce until we hit the sixth floor. Same with 
Bubble Boy. I do have enough to make one type of potion, but you 
won’t like it. And only enough to make maybe two of them, so whatever 
death-defying stunt you’re planning, take Katia with you and leave 
Donut on the ground. It’s an easy enough formula. Five minute brew. 
Pll double check the market to see if anything else is available, but I 
wouldn’t count on it. 

Carl: I’m coming your way. I need to make a few rockets really fast. 
Make me the potions. 

“Okay,” I said to Henrik. “I don’t know if this will save the town, but 
we're going to give it a try.” I turned to Katia, who’d been strangely silent 


since we’d returned. Her eyes were flashing, so I knew she was talking to 
somebody. She did not look happy. “Katia, I have a job for you.” 

She blinked and looked at me. “What do you need me to do?” 

“Two things. First one is a little gross.” 


While Katia returned to the Desperado Club, I explained the assault with 
Donut while we jogged back to the personal space. It occurred to me that 
we were giving ourselves extra work, skipping past two pubs to get to the 
Toe. Every single one had a personal space entrance in it. But as we rushed 
by, I noticed they were all closed and boarded up. The camels all knew what 
was coming and were already moving their way to the bomb shelters. 

“Carl, that is not going to work. They know there are changelings in 
town. They’ ll check.” 

“I know.” I explained the next part of the plan. 

Donut did not look impressed. “This is a little janky, even for a Carl 
plan.” 

“Janky?” I said. “Where did you get that one? That is not an Elle term.” 

“Louis told me,” she said. 

“Louis? You’ve been talking to Louis?” 

“T’m allowed to have friends, Carl.” 

Before I could come up with a suitable response, I received a message 
from Morris the spider guy: 

Morris: Hey, so we did what you asked. Package delivered. But we 
have a new problem. 

Carl: Big or small? 

Morris: They’re all big problems. Right after the water quadrant 
was conquered, some of the walls changed inside. I think all the exits 
are closed. 

I remembered that the dromedarian had said that basement chamber had 
been sealed off. The walls must have changed about. I looked at my map, 
and it hadn’t changed as far as I could tell. But it didn’t tell me if entrances 
were open or closed. The tomb raider guys couldn’t leave anyway, so it 
wasn’t a big deal. 

Carl: Okay. So what’s the problem? 


Morris: We didn’t think much of it at first, but now something’s 
happening below us. We can hear it. 

Carl: What do you mean? 

Morris: I think the necropolis is filling with water. 

Carl: Oh fuck me. 

Morris: Yeah, so I don’t know what we’re going to do. We have a 
lot of those water breathing scrolls, but not nearly enough. And I don’t 
think our torches work underwater. If it fills up all the way, then we’re 
hosed. 

Carl: Okay, make sure everybody has the water scrolls. If it fills all 
the way to where you are, go to a safe room. Actually, you and Bobby 
return to the Desperado and plant yourselves there. If I need to build 
you something or get more scrolls to you, we can get it to you more 
easily. 

“Damnit,” I growled. When Chris had taken the underwater castle, it 
had likely caused something to make the water rush into the tomb. The 
entrances had all closed up, so there was nowhere for the water to go. It 
hadn’t occurred to me that we might need to consider the order in which we 
took these castles. There was nothing I could do from here. 

I was expecting to find the Toe boarded up, but the bar was open and lit 
up like a Christmas display. I opened the door and was greeted with a crowd 
of about forty children, ranging in age from four to twelve. Almost all were 
dromedarians, but a group of six were in human form. They were obviously 
changelings. Juice Box was moving amongst the kids, talking to each in 
turn. She had a bag in her hand and was handing something out to each 
child. 

Carl: Let me know if any of the kids other than the humans are 
shapeshifters. 

Donut: I DON’T SEE ANY OTHERS BUT IT’S HARD WITH 
THE KIDS. JUICE BOX’S HEAD IS VERY HOT. JUST AS HOT AS 
THE HENRIK GUY. OH, OH. AND THE BARTENDER GUY IS ONE 
TOO! NOW THAT?’S JUST SNEAKY. 

“You owe us each a gold coin,” Skarn said. He was in human form, 
standing with the others. 

The other crawlers were also here. Louis and Firas stood with Langley 
and the archers. Louis was sucking on... a goddamn, actual juice box. A 


kiwi strawberry-flavored Capri Sun. I realized that was what Juice Box was 
handing out to all the kids. 

“All right,” I called. “I won’t be here to let you in later, so everybody 
follow me.” 

Donut scoffed. “Shouldn’t we take them to one of the actual safe rooms, 
Carl? Like that one on that strange street?” 

“No,” I said. “Mordecai said the saferooms are only safe if there’s a 
crawler in with them. We can’t spare anybody.” I raised my voice. 
“Everybody follow me.” I pointed at the bartender and Juice Box. “You 
guys, too.” 

The bartender refused to come, but Juice Box happily followed us. I 
was glad because we’d need someone to wrangle the children. 

“Yeah, what about our money?” Skarn demanded. 

I pulled a gold coin into the air and tossed it at him. “Help me get 
everyone inside, and you’ll get another and so will everyone else. Where 
are their parents?” 

“All the grown-ups are on defense duty,” he said. He raised his voice. 
“Okay, everyone follow Mr. Carl.” 

I noticed three of the human/changeling children weren’t fully... 
complete. One, a girl named Ruby, did not have any arms at all, and her 
head was sunken in at the top, like a deflated soccer ball that had been 
kicked. She walked slowly, with a noticeable limp. She was hard to look at. 
When I examined her, I saw she had an active debuff. 

This NPC is suffering from Compression Sickness. 

I sent a message to Mordecai asking what that was, but he said he’d 
never heard of it. He then asked where I was just as I opened the door and 
gave access to the first of several children. 


Mordecai, as expected, was not pleased. 

“This isn’t a goddamned daycare, Carl. Do you see a jungle gym? 
Because I don’t see a fucking jungle gym.” 

The couch fell over onto its side as three dromedarian kids tried to 
balance on the back. Another had grabbed the cleaner bot and was hovering 
a foot off the ground while the robot beeped with a scared-sounding alarm. 


Juice Box formed into a hairy monster and roared at the camel, who 
dropped the robot. The cleaner bot zoomed up and out of reach, beeping 
mournfully as another pair of children stomped onto their almost-empty 
juice box pouches to launch the straws across the room. A circle formed as 
the children, dromedarian and changeling alike, started using their 
newfound riches to establish a gambling ring where they bet on who could 
launch their juice box straws the furthest. Donut was suddenly in on the 
action, hopping up and down and betting loudly. 

The other crawlers all cowered in the corner, not certain what to do. 

We’d all been in the room for less than three minutes. 

“Yeah, you need games or something,” Juice Box said, walking up. 
She’d returned to a generic, female human form. She was white skinned 
and blonde, about eighteen years old. Her jaw worked like she was chewing 
gum. “They’re calm now, but they’ Il be getting antsy soon.” 

“Calm?” Mordecai asked. “This is calm?” 

One of the changeling humans was suddenly a skyfowl and was 
attempting to take to the air. Another had turned into a cat, but Donut 
started hissing, and he switched back to a human. 

“Why don’t they ever turn into dromedarians?” I asked. 

“Not allowed,” Juice Box said. “Only when they’re at the bars and for 
entertainment purposes only. That was part of our deal when they took us 
in. We ain’t allowed to casually take the form of the dromedarians 
otherwise.” 

“Is that so?” I asked. But I was in a hurry, and I needed to get to the 
crafting room. So I didn’t pursue the obvious lie. Now that I had the 
formula down, it’d only take me a few minutes to put the missiles together. 
Since the two-stage missiles weren’t working, and we were out of time to 
figure out why, I was just going to use the original design and add a few of 
the seekers. The missiles would have a climbing range of a little more than 
a mile. The Wasteland would be a good three miles above our position 
when it dropped its bombs. That meant we had to get creative. 

“Did you do the potions?” I asked Mordecai. 

“They’re cooling down,” Mordecai said, still seething and distracted by 
the horde of children. “They’re probably ready by now.” He sighed, looking 
about the room. “I have a few downloads from the time before the dungeon 
opened. I think I can stream them to the screens here. Hang on.” The main 
room screen flickered, and a new image appeared. A movie started to play. 


“I didn’t know you could do that,” I said. I glanced over at Donut, who 
was about five seconds from discovering Mordecai had a magical Bluetooth 
connection to the screen. 

“Yes,” he said. “But you don’t have time to watch movies.” 

Around the room, the screeching stopped as dozens of children 
suddenly turned their attention to the screen. 

“Carl, Carl, it’s a movie!” Donut said, bounding across the room to 
return to my shoulder. 

“Tt’s part of the manager benefit,” Mordecai said, obviously reluctant to 
tell her this. “In case we ever want to strategize using the screens. But I also 
have a digital library of most Earth movies that I collected when we were 
preparing to go live. Plus entertainment from the last world I worked, 
though they didn’t have anything good unless you like off-key opera.” 

“Do you have There’s Something About Mary? I never saw the ending! 
Carl came home that day and ruined it. He switched it to the watch-Carl- 
get-fragged-over-and-over Playstation channel, and I never learned what 
happened! It has been killing me. If I don’t find out what happened I will 
simply die.” She suddenly gasped. “Do you have the Sex and the City 
movie?” 

“And now you know why I never told you about this,” Mordecai said. 
On the screen, the movie was the original Toy Story. “Hey, hey, kid! Put that 
down!” he suddenly yelled, storming off. 

“Wonderful,” I said, watching him go. I turned to Juice Box. “You’re 
doing good with the kids. You’re a natural.” 

“Hey,” she said, leaning in closer, her voice a whisper. She’d watched 
and listened to our conversation about movies with a strange intensity. 
“What is this place? Is it from the Hunting Grounds?” 

“The Hunting Grounds?” I asked, surprised. “No, it’s our base of 
operations. It follows us wherever we go.” 

“Can we use it to get there?” she asked, voice full with so much hope 
that I had to pause to regard her. 

“The Hunting Grounds” was what they called the sixth floor. I had a 
quick memory, of a goblin shamanka with a face full of piercings and rings 
telling me forlornly about how everything would be better if they just could 
get one floor down. 

“No, you can’t use this room to travel,” I said. “But we’ll be going there 
if we can get out of here. Is that some place you’re trying to go?” 


Pd been slogging my way through Herot’s essay on the nature of NPCs 
from the cookbook, and this was something he’d talked about frequently. 
NPCs had varying degrees of situational awareness about where they were. 
On the previous level with the trains, they’d all been completely 
brainwashed, totally unaware that they were in a dungeon. Rory and Lorelai 
the goblin shamankas from the very first floor had been the opposite. While 
they’d been invested in the llama/goblin meth war story, they were also 
fully aware that they were on the first floor of a dungeon. Herot, who 
advocated for breaking the NPCs out of the fourth wall, warned that those 
NPCs who knew what was going on from the start were much more 
dangerous. On the last floor, we’d been able to recruit a few NPCs to our 
cause because their world was obviously a construct, and the illusion was 
easily shattered. 

“The Hunting Grounds are our ancient home,” Juice Box said. The 
normally ditzy and goofy NPC was suddenly dead serious. “We have been 
stuck here for a long time. There was a way to go home, but it is lost to us 
now that the town hall is gone.” 

I reached up and scratched Donut on the head. I sent her a quick 
message. 

“Are you seeking the Gate of the Feral Gods?” Donut asked. 

She scoffed. She didn’t seem surprised we mentioned the artifact. “No. 
Gnomes seek that prize. The same with the mad mage and that bugbear 
under the sea. All of them came here trying to find it. If the gnomes 
couldn’t locate it, then nobody can. Or will. Hen...” She paused. “One of 
our kind says that the gate artifact is a myth. The camels have been here the 
longest, and they know nothing of it. What we seek is something else.” 

She’d almost said “Henrik” but caught herself. 

I asked the next question. “So what is it you seek? Something to do with 
the ghost queen Quetzalcoatlus?” 

That surprised her, and not in a good way. She narrowed her eyes and 
backed off. “I must tend to the children. I’m beginning to suspect this is all 
your doing. You speak of helping us, but where is the proof, other than 
taking the children to this place? Prove to me you mean what you say. If 
you can stop the gnomes from destroying the city, and my people survive, I 
will tell you. Come speak to me again if we survive the bombardment.” 

Katia: Henrik just got the daily message on his pocket watch thing 
from the gnomes. He showed them the reply, just as you wrote it. We 


were expecting them to ask questions, but they snapped off 
communications. 

Carl: Do you think they took the bait? 

Katia: I don’t know. Have you built the missiles yet? 

Carl: Doing it now. We got a little distracted on the way in. 

Katia: Cutting it a little close don’t you think? 

Donut: WE’RE WATCHING TOY STORY. HAVE YOU SEEN IT? 

Katia: What? 

Carl: We’ll be ready in a minute. 

A new timer suddenly appeared in my vision. It was at one hour and 15 
minutes and ticking down. 

New Quest. Squeeze out the Juice Box. 

That mischievous Changeling prostitute appears to be more 
important to this story than you first thought. It also appears she’s 
rather fond of her brothers and sisters, many of whom are currently 
outside, mixed in with the poor, oblivious Dromedarians, preparing to 
die in a desperate attempt to destroy all the incoming bombs with flak. 
If this town is bombed, they will not succeed. They will not even come 
close to succeeding. 

To win this quest, you must save Hump Town from the inevitable 
bombardment, which will occur when the timer reaches zero. 

Reward: You will receive a Platinum Quest Box. 

In addition, all crawlers in this quadrant will receive a permanent 
fifty percent charisma bonus during any future interactions with 
Changelings. 

You’ll also receive my undying respect, because there is no way in 
hell even you can pull this one off. 


OceanofPDF.com 


Lat J 


ONCE I WAS ALONE WITH DONUT IN THE CRAFTING ROOM, I SPENT A QUICK 
minute to open my new loot boxes. I only had two. The silver boss box I’d 
gotten for killing Ruckus the chicken hawk contained two items. First was a 
case of 25 more surefires, which was a relief. I’d already used up ten of the 
ones I’d received earlier, giving the missiles the “guided” upgrade. I was 
about to use the rest of the ones I already had, and this gave us some wiggle 
room. I could now alter the plan. 

The second item was a little worrying. It was similar to the boss- 
damage-enhancing Seize the Day Toothpaste I had, which I was saving for 
later. 

“Its a lotion bottle, Carl,” Donut said, peering down at the item. She’d 
also received the same prize plus some healing scrolls in her box. “It’s just 
like the bottle you used to keep hidden in your drawer by the bed.” 

Jellyfish Salve (5 applications) 

If you can’t talk someone into peeing on you after you get stung by 
a Pain Amplifier Jelly, then this will do the trick. 

Effect: removes the pain portion of the Kill Me Now It Hurts 
debuff. 

Warning: It does not remove the one-minute healing block effect 
associated with the Jelly’s sting. 

I really hoped that we wouldn’t have to deal with the water quadrant. I’d 
received the box just before Chris had defeated that level, so maybe it was 
something we could avoid. 

My next item was the silver fan box I’d received at the end of the 
previous floor. Itd become available just as we set out to fight Ruckus. I 


braced myself as it popped open. 

“Yes,” I said. “Finally.” I looked up at the ceiling. “Thanks, guys.” 

It was a thick, enchanted roll of duct tape. I picked it up and examined 
it. 

Enchanted Roll of Never-ending Duct Tape. Fifty meters. 

Odds are good you know who Ted Bundy is. Odds are even better 
you don’t know who Vesta Stoudt is. And while this problem is not 
exclusive to you hairless monkeys and your pollution-ridden world, 
those first two statements are part of the reason why you have received 
this prize. 

Will you use it to tie people up? Will you use it to save the lives of 
those you love? Will you wrap your ankles together and sensuously rub 
your supple feet up and down a dungeon wall while you run your 
hands through your hair? Who knows! But you just got yourself a roll 
of the universe’s greatest duct tape. 

This 50-meter-long roll of extra-durable, fabric-based tape 
regenerates at the rate of one meter an hour until it returns to 50 
meters. 

“Awesome,” I said, keeping the tape out. I already had a use in mind. I 
moved to my sapper table and went to work. 


With just about 45 minutes remaining, we all left the protection of the safe 
room and exited out the town’s main gate. I warned Juice Box not to let any 
of the kids out of the personal space because once they left, they wouldn’t 
be able to get back in. Mordecai had managed to squeeze out three copies of 
the potion with his supplies, which was good. It would allow Donut to 
participate in the raid. I doled the potions out, and we were on our way. 

The six archers walked behind us in a V pattern. I attached the back cart 
to the body of the Chariot. Firas sat in the back cart along with Henrik the 
town’s leader. Louis sat in the driver’s seat while I walked to the left of the 
cart, and Donut, sitting astride Mongo, marched to our right. 

I caught the eye of Donut as we marched forward. She was nervous. 
This was a complicated plan with a lot of moving parts, which meant there 
was a lot of ways for it to go south. I took a deep breath. I was nervous, too. 


The struggling form of Wynne the dirigible gnome sat on the raised, 
back seat of the ATV. I originally planned on having him tied with rope, but 
duct tape worked much better. The optional missile battery was not attached 
and was sitting in my inventory along with two more four packs. I clutched 
the farseer in my hand, and I used it to stare up at the flying fortress. The 
damn thing was huge. I made sure I focused on several different gnomes 
long enough that they’d receive a notification that they were being watched. 
We wanted to make sure they knew we were here. 

We gave a wide berth to several of the giant lizards as we made our way 
across the desert, angling toward that large hill in the center of the bowl. We 
didn’t quite make it that far. The ponderous Wasteland moved above us, and 
I feared they’d drop bombs on our unprotected heads. Instead, the massive 
structure continued south, moving toward the edge of the bowl where it 
would soon be directly above the village of Hump Town. 

Multiple flying vehicles dispatched from the main body and started 
circling downward, reminding me of the whirlybirds that dropped off of 
maple trees. As I expected, it was a mishmash of vehicles, no two the same. 
I quickly counted. A total of thirteen vehicles were dispatched. 

A single, traditional-style hot-air balloon remained in the center of the 
formation. The large, black and gold striped balloon was covered in ribbons 
and small flags. It looked like it was decorated for a parade or to advertise a 
circus. It was not outfitted for war, unlike all the other vehicles. A large 
basket hung underneath, equally doused in ribbons and flags. The basket 
looked big enough to hold five or six regular humans. Three faces peered 
over the edge down at us. The basket continued to descend as the other 
vehicles kept to about 500 feet, circling and hovering. The ominous shape 
of bombs and large, firecracker-like rockets dotted their undersides. 

The decorated balloon continued to descend, slowing rapidly. I caught 
the shimmer of a shield protecting the balloon. The moment it lowered 
below 100 feet, the three dots on the balloon became visible. It labeled the 
three dirigible gnomes as a Level 25 Aerostat Pilot, a Level 44 
Negotiator, and a Level 52 Sniper Captain. 

I looked up at the three faces as the balloon settled. It crunched heavily 
into the sand while the pilot spun a wheel on the fire mechanism under the 
open balloon. I knew real hot air balloons worked better in colder 
environments, and I could sense the magic coming from the box that 
radiated heat upward. There were a dozen controls on the thing. It reminded 


me of the Nightmare, though less complicated. Slightly. I quickly examined 
the balloon’s properties. 

Gnomish Legate Balloon. The Vahana. Contraption. 

Of all the vehicles left aboard the dreadnaught Wasteland, the 
Vahana is perhaps the oldest. 

Once, long ago, the gnomes believed they could avoid war. 

And while they could not leave this conflict-infested world, they 
could take to the skies, out of reach of everyone else. They hoped they 
could set themselves up as neutral peacekeepers. Everyone knew that 
the black and gold-striped balloons were off limits. The balloons were a 
symbol of hope. The sight of a Gnomish Legate on the horizon heralded 
the arrival of ambassadors, and perhaps peace. 

But when new visitors came to their world, coming via a mysterious 
portal, everything changed. These were winged predators who would 
not have peace, and they would not suffer anybody else sharing their 
skies. The Legate Balloons were traded for a different sort of vehicle. 
The sylvan balloons were mostly dismantled and recycled, sewn 
together to give extra security to the gnomish settlements, which were 
also repurposed. The peaceful, flying communities changed their name 
from sky garden to dreadnaught. 

Interesting. I turned my attention to the balloon’s occupants. 

The sniper gnome was a short, black-bearded creature wearing a dark 
leather jacket covered in zippers and buckles. These gnomes were shorter 
even than the Bopcas, and I realized they had to be standing on something 
in order to peer over the edge of the wicker basket. He was the only one not 
wearing a red, conical hat. He had an old-school, round and black half-style 
motorcycle helmet on his head. The kind that didn’t have a face shield and 
looked almost like a baseball helmet. My dad had worn something similar. 

I had a sudden memory, of my father angry. It was soon after mom had 
left us, a month before he, in turn, left me to fend for myself. He’d ripped 
off the helmet and smashed my fish tank, spilling my mollies everywhere. I 
hadn’t cried when my fish died, and I remembered it had bothered me for 
weeks after. Ever since then, I’d think of my father and those fish whenever 
I saw one of those helmets. I’d think of those fish flopping on the ground as 
I desperately tried to pick them up, cutting my fingers on the glass. I’d think 
of the pain and blood and of them not surviving, even after I put them in a 
cup. Whenever I saw a helmet like that, I would think of that day and of 


remember how easy it was to grow numb and not even realize it. I’d think, 
I’m never getting a pet again. All they do is die. 

It felt like the wrong lesson, especially now. But that’s what happens, 
isn’t it? The universe shows us how cruel it can be, and we are worse for it. 

I looked across the way at Donut, sitting atop Mongo, doing her best to 
look menacing. She’s not a pet anymore. Was she better off now? I didn’t 
know. 

Henrik remained motionless, looking down. He kept his hand on the 
shoulder of Wynne, as if he was concerned about the old gnome’s 
condition. It didn’t look natural. I prayed they wouldn’t notice. 

Then I looked up at the Wasteland. A war machine that had once been a 
place where the gnomes could live in peace. I knew this was all a 
construction. But it was so easy to get caught up in the story. So easy to 
forget who the true enemy was. 

But more importantly, the most difficult part of this, was knowing all 
that and realizing it didn’t matter. Not today. If this went as intended, every 
gnome on that thing would be dead in ten minutes. 

What was it Henrik had said? Sometimes we do things that are not of 
our nature to protect our own. 

The sniper gnome held onto a large, metal tube that I first thought was a 
polearm. I realized it was a launcher of some sort. The barrel on the thing 
was big enough to stick my fist through. He also wore a bandolier over his 
shoulder, dotted with round, grenade-like devices. 

That’s the one we need to watch, I thought. The gnome glared back at 
me, his dark eyes boring into mine. 

As I instructed, the archers spread out behind us. Louis remained at the 
chariot’s controls. Firas sat in the back of the cart, directly behind the sitting 
Henrik. Donut looked nervously over at me as the Negotiator gnome 
climbed out of the basket and sank knee-deep into the sand. The gnome was 
wearing an olive-colored uniform shirt, but it was old and ratty. There was a 
sizable hole in the left arm. The gnome took two steps toward us and 
stopped and straightened his back. This one was not armed. His dot on the 
minimap was white. 

Leon. Level 44 Dirigible Gnome Negotiator. 

Commisar of the Wasteland. 

A master politician and stickler for rules, Leon might have been a 
tax attorney in another life. Now he lives as the chief political officer 


aboard the dreadnaught Wasteland. 

Pd say he has a stick up his ass, but he’s always clenched so tight, 
there’s no way a stick would fit up there. 

“Please,” Henrik said to Leon the gnome. “Please call off the bombing. 
There are children in that town.” 

I cringed. Katia’s impersonation of Henrik’s voice was not very good. I 
hoped they didn’t notice. 

“We received your message,” Leon said, ignoring the appeal. “We will 
take the Commandant’s uncle, but in your message, you said he required a 
potion. We don’t know which potion you mean. Which of you is the healer? 
Is it you?” 

“Me?” I asked. “No.” I pointed across the way to Donut. Behind Leon, 
the sniper gnome leaned forward in the basket. 

All eyes turned to Donut. She cleared her throat and used her actress 
voice. “It is I, Princess Donut the famed healer of Queen Anne! But there’s 
been a misunderstanding, my dear. We already have the potion he needs. 
My manservant holds it in his hand.” 

I held up the yellow-green vial. 

“What?” Henrik said, looking back and forth between me and Donut. 
“You said...” 

Firas stood, standing behind the still-sitting camel. He pulled a long 
knife and ran it across the camel’s neck. Blood sprayed. Henrik gurgled and 
slumped over. Firas remained standing there, staring at the knife stupidly. 

Carl: Goddamnit. Stomp his head. Do it fast. 

Firas swallowed and then stomped down a few times onto the robe. 

Carl: Good job. Now sit. Be inconspicuous. 

The gnomes barely reacted. Leon turned his gaze back to Donut. 

Donut made a show of licking her paw, pretending to barely notice the 
murder behind her. “We want passage onto the Wasteland. This sand is just 
awful. In exchange, we will heal Wynne and offer our services. I am a 
healer, and my crew here are all mechanics. My manservant is a world- 
renown masseuse.” She leaned forward. “He’s an expert with feet.” 

Carl: Goddamnit, Donut. Stick to the script. 

Leon looked over his shoulder at the sniper who shook his head “no.” I 
had my eye on the minimap. The moment it turned red, I would jam down 
on my Protective Shell and all hell would break loose. Hopefully it 
wouldn’t come to that just yet. 


“We know your filthy town is infested with changelings,” Leon said, 
“And it would be just like you to attempt to deceive us. Changelings are 
like rats, and one does not invite rats into one’s home. Now remove 
Wynne’s bindings, so I may converse with him. I wish to establish it is 
really him.” 

Donut made a show of looking up at the Wasteland, which was still 
moving toward the town. It’d be directly overhead in twenty minutes. We 
needed to hurry. 

“It’s not my town,” Donut said. “I am not a changeling. Disgusting. Can 
you imagine? Are you really going to bomb them?” 

“Tf it’s not your town, then it is of no concern to you. But, yes,” Leon 
said. “No matter what happens here, we are going to settle this conflict once 
and for all. It has gone on much too long. And we are going to bomb you, 
too, if you do not do as I ask.” The gnome looked at the struggling, hooded 
form of Wynne dubiously. “I am beginning to suspect proof will be difficult 
for you. I warn you, these pilots and snipers have no love for me. If your 
plan is to take me hostage, they will not hesitate to kill us all. Now let me 
look upon him.” 

Carl: How much time left on Wynne? 

Donut: SIX MINUTES. 

“T will remove his facial covering, but I’m not removing his bindings,” 
Donut said. “I don’t know what the silly camels told you, but they talked 
him into using his magic to resurrect some ghost thing living in the tomb. 
He is still suffering the ill effects of the spell. Carl, be a dear and unsheathe 
the patient.” 

I reached over and ripped Wynne’s hood off. The zombie, reanimated 
gnome growled and snapped. The body had been chewed to hell by beetles, 
but he’d only been a few hours dead when the tomb raider guys had 
retrieved the corpse and brought it to Katia. The body was mostly intact. 
Thankfully, the face was untouched. 

Donut leaped off Mongo and landed on Louis’s shoulder. “I am an 
alchemist and a healer. Like I said, Carl here holds a potion that will heal 
his affliction. I want you to do whatever you need to determine he’s the real 
deal. But I’m not stupid, gnome. Pll give the potion to restore him once 
we’re on the balloon and on our way to the protection of your village.” 

I held my breath. Before he’d been killed, Wynne was a class called a 
Flesh Mechanic. According to Mordecai, the type of spell he cast was 


famously difficult on the caster. Had Wynne temporarily given flesh to 
Quetzalcoatlus, he would indeed be in a zombie-like state for a short 
duration. He would heal on his own, but I was pretending not to know that 
part. 

“There are too many of you,” Leon said. “We can only take you and 
Wynne. Any more, and itll be too much weight.” He held out his hands 
apologetically. 

Donut scoffed. Above us, the line of airplanes continued to circle. She 
waved at me. “I will take my manservant, or there is no deal. Besides, 
who’s going to carry him? Me? Surely you jest.” 

“Very well,” he said after a moment. He peered suspiciously at the 
archers. 

“But,” Donut added, “Once your favored uncle is returned safe and 
sound, you’ll dispatch balloons to retrieve the others.” 

Leon smiled wickedly. “He’s no uncle of mine, but of Commandant 
Kane. However, this is acceptable. Forgive me for appearing mistrustful, 
but first I must cast a spell. It will require me to touch him and a random 
sampling of your men.” Behind Leon, the sniper gnome leaned even further 
forward. The wicker basket creaked. He pulled up the weapon and pointed 
it directly at Donut. Zombie Wynne snapped and growled. 

“No funny stuff,” the sniper called to Donut. “If we gotta fight our way 
out of here, you’re getting the first chest hole.” 

“And you’ ll get the second,” I called back to the sniper. 

“There’s no need for such talk,’ Leon said. “Surely this... dog 
creature... would never be stupid enough to attempt to trick us. There 
would be no purpose.” 

“Excuse me?” Donut started to say, but I sent her a quick message to be 
calm. To stay on script. 

The sniper grinned at Donut’s outrage, revealing a row of sharp teeth. 

Carl: If this goes sideways, Katia and Donut focus on the sniper. I 
have the ambassador guy. Langley, you guys get the pilot before he can 
retreat. Fire then scatter. Meet up at the ruins of the Bactrian town. 

Donut took a breath and calmed herself. “Do whatever you need to do, 
but be careful of the old gnome. He’s a bit cranky. He might try to take a 
nip.” 

“I am familiar with Wynne’s post-spell stupors.” Leon waded forward 
through the sand. Mongo growled, so the gnome moved to the Chariot’s 


port side. 

He paused in front of Louis and bade him to lean forward. 

“T will cast a spell on you that will detect if you are a changeling,” the 
gnome said. “If you attack me, you will die.” 

I told Louis to comply, and the gnome touched the man’s forehead. A 
blue light burst into the air. He repeated it with Donut. He then insisted on 
doing the same to me. I went to a knee, allowing the perfume-smelling man 
to touch my head. The perfume was covering a deep, dirty stench I realized 
when he was up close. I knew that smell. It was the stench of a man who’d 
been rationed a gallon a week to shower with. They’re in trouble. Their ship 
is floundering. 

I felt a tingle, and there was another blue flash. That was it. 

He nodded and then approached the bound hostage. He raised his hand, 
but he couldn’t reach the tall seat. 

I laughed, trying to cover my frustration. Donut’s Second Chance spell 
normally only allowed her to resurrect any creature up to ten levels above 
her own. At the spell’s current level of ten, it also normally resurrected the 
creatures for up to fifteen minutes. But thanks to her glass cannon class, the 
spell was remarkably more powerful. It now allowed her to resurrect any 
corpse up to twenty levels above her own, and for half of an hour. Donut 
was currently level 33, and Wynne had been 50. Still, the spell was about to 
run out. We’d cast it too early. I was afraid that they would use a farseer to 
examine him before they sent the ambassador, and if they saw he was dead, 
they would’ve simply bombed us to hell. Him being undead was barely 
better, but Mordecai seemed to think it would work. He insisted there were 
a lot of quests that involved raising key NPCs from the dead in order to 
trick the living. It was almost a trope. Either way, the spell was going to run 
out in two minutes. 

“Do you want me to give you a boost?” I asked Leon. 

The gnome glowered at me as he pulled himself up the side of the cart. 
Zombie Wynne snapped and thrashed as Leon placed his hand against the 
creature’s forehead. He tried to bite the gnome’s finger. 

Carl: Keep him calm! 

Donut: PVE NEVER RESURRECTED JUST A HEAD BEFORE, 
CARL. OR SOMEONE THIS HIGH OF A LEVEL. THEY’RE A LOT 
MORE SURLY WHEN THEY’RE JUST HEADS. AND PM THE 
ONE DOING ALL THE TALKING. MAYBE NEXT TIME YOU CAN 


RESURRECT THE DEAD, HALF-EATEN CORPSE YOURSELF 
WHEN YOU COME UP WITH A SUICIDAL PLAN. 

We all held our collective breaths. I had no idea if this would work. The 
spell supposedly only detected changelings. If it was anything else, we’d be 
screwed. 

Luckily for us, Leon was literally leaning up against Katia, who was 
disguised as the chair—amongst other things. One word from me, and she’d 
suck him into her mass. 

A blue light pulsed. I let go of my breath. 

“Well, he’s no changeling,” Leon said. He continued to peer 
suspiciously at the reanimated gnome. “But this is not a healing stupor. I 
have never seen anything like it.” He sniffed. “This is much worse than 
usual. He appears to be a ghoul.” 

“The camels made him resurrect an ancient ghost,” Donut said. She 
indicated the potion, still in my hand. “Like I said, I can heal him. The 
camels did not understand what they were doing. I don’t think he knew, 
either. They were drugging him with mushrooms.” 

Leon regarded the vial in my hand. “What is the potion anyway?” 

Donut didn’t hesitate. “Healer’s Respite. Stichberries boiled with iron 
slivers and manticore shavings.” 

Leon nodded thoughtfully. “That is not something we would have. That 
might work. If it doesn’t, you’ll wish we’d left you on the ground.” 

The potion was actually a vial of Mountain Dew I’d gotten from a 
saferoom on the second floor, but Mordecai said the coloring was the 
closest of all the ones we had. We had no idea if this ambassador guy would 
buy this line of bullshit, but we’d made sure that Donut could at least 
pretend to know what she was talking about. I’d made her repeat the 
ingredients three times as we’d walked over here. 

“The dromedarians would never attempt to resurrect their old 
slavemasters,” Leon continued, stepping down from the side of the chariot 
before moving to the back cart and toward Henrik’s “corpse.” 

Firas: What’s he doing? What’s he doing? 

Carl: Chill. We anticipated this. 

Leon first did his changeling check on Firas before he moved to the 
body of Henrik and started rummaging through the remains. 

As he did this, just behind him, the Second Chance spell timed out, 
causing Wynne’s head to disintegrate into a cloud of dust. Shit, shit. 


Carl: Katia. 
atia: I’m on it. 

Nobody seemed to notice the new head grow into place. The sniper only 
had his eyes on Donut, and Leon was bent over, rifling through Henrik’s 
robes and pack. He pulled back the clothes to reveal the dead body of Svern 
the changeling principal, the one we’d killed in the town hall. I’d kept the 
corpse because Mordecai had wanted to get some goo from his brain. The 
body was pretty beat up, especially the head, which was why I’d had Firas 
pretend to stomp down on the empty robe. 

“The town’s leadership must have been usurped by the changelings,” 
Leon said, sounding disgusted. “I should have tested him, too.” He looked 
up and shouted at the sniper. “He doesn’t have it on him.” 

“That’s going to be a problem,” the sniper said. “What’re we doing?” 

“Are you looking for this?” I asked, holding up the watch. I’d made the 
facsimile from memory at my bench, only spending a quick thirty seconds 
to shape the thing. It’d been a last-minute hunch. I’d asked Henrik where 
the watch came from, and he claimed he hadn’t known, though I sensed he 
was being sketchy about it, which made me wonder how important it was. 
The prop would not pass a quick inspection, so I quickly put it away. “The 
Princess had me slip it out of his pocket as we were leaving town. It’ll be 
yours once you guys pick up our crew and bring them up there with the 
Princess.” 

“As you can see, I only hire the most qualified servants,” Donut added. 

Leon’s demeanor relaxed. “Good, good. At least we don’t have to go 
searching through the town’s remains looking for it.” 

“So does that mean we have a deal?” Donut asked. 

I looked up at the massive, floating structure. It appeared to be lowering 
its altitude. From this angle, it almost looked like a rusting, flying oil rig. 
Fifteen minutes. 

“Very well,” Leon said. “We have a deal. Have your man take Wynne 
and bring him to the basket. But I must insist you give Wynne the respite 
now before we go. I can’t bring him in such a state onto the Wasteland. The 
Commandant will not be pleased if his uncle tries to eat him.” 

“Okay, but the potion will take a few minutes to work.” 

“As long as it works before we arrive. Otherwise, we’ll throw you all 
over the edge.” 

“Carl, administer the medicine.” 


A 


I took the vial of Mountain Dew, yanked the cork, and poured it down 
the throat of “Wynne.” I suppressed a grin as he gagged. 

Carl: Sorry. 

Katia: Holy shit who can drink this bile. 

Donut made a show of putting Mongo back into his carrier. The 
dinosaur screeched and put up a fight, hissing and complaining and kicking 
up dust, causing Leon to back away with alarm. But eventually she got him. 
Donut then leaped onto my shoulder as I picked up the duct-taped form of 
Wynne and threw him over my other shoulder. We trudged toward the 
wicker basket. As we marched, I prayed none of the gnomes would notice 
that the entire back seat of the Chariot was now gone. Or that Wynne, even 
though he was thoroughly wrapped in duct tape, was about two feet longer 
than he should be. I kept most of the bulk behind me. 

Carl: Okay guys. Follow Langley’s lead. All of you be ready. Firas 
will puddle jump you out of there if necessary. Louis, you’re in charge 
of the chariot. Those planes have missiles on them, so we will need your 
ground support. I have confidence in you guys. 

Louis: You know a plan is really desperate when it requires 
confidence in people like us. 

Firas: Shut the hell up, Louis. He’s trying to build our self- 
confidence. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 12 ] 


THIS IS THE MESSAGE I HAD HENRIK SHOW TO COMMANDANT KANE: 


Wynne is incapacitated, and we are returning him to you. He cast a 
resurrection spell on our behalf and became gravely ill. A traveling 
healer has offered to help him, but this healer now reports only a 
potion you might have will revive your uncle. In a show of good 
faith, this healer, their party, and I will travel outside of the city 
walls in one hour and will bring Wynne to you. There, this healer 
will tell you how to save your uncle’s life. I will accompany them 
and offer myself as tribute. I hope and pray we can negotiate a 
peace that will save our town from your wrath. 


The real Henrik remained in town, standing amongst the defenders, 
waiting for death to rain. 

The bulk of this plan, once again, rested on Donut’s charm bonus and 
Katia’s shapeshifting skills. Not only was Katia shaped as the entire back 
seat of the Chariot—which I’d been forced to remove for this to work—but 
she also played the “body” of Wynne the gnome sitting atop it. Her real 
eyes were in there, mixed in with the duct tape, giving her a wide, raised 
view of the situation. 

But it hadn’t ended there. Katia was playing triple duty. She was also 
the body of Henrik, sitting in the cart directly behind the chair. He was 
connected to the rest of the mass using the camel’s arm, which was 
designed to look like it was draped over the seat. The front part of the 


dromedarian/changeling’s neck had been a bag of actual ghoul blood I had 
in my inventory. That was a last-minute addition to make Firas’s throat- 
cutting ploy seem more authentic. 

The robe and backpack and everything else was real. 

When Firas cut the changeling’s neck, Katia had pulled the mass 
associated with the changeling, causing the Henrik form to disappear. The 
robes and pack fell, landing upon the changeling corpse already there in the 
cart, previously hidden by the fake dromedarian body. When Leon the 
ambassador investigated, it looked as if the changeling corpse had been 
Henrik the whole time. 

She had pulled it all off. I couldn’t believe it. 

I reflected on this as I climbed into the wicker basket of the Vahana, 
Katia dangling over my left shoulder and Donut sitting upon my right. 

The sniper’s name was Crixus. The pilot was Hicks. They went to work 
as Leon barked orders. I kept one eye on the pilot, trying to commit the 
controls to memory. 

“Tt is good timing,” Leon said as I eased Wynne/Katia to the floor. “We 
will have a spectacular view of the death of the final settlement of Anser.” 
He seemed almost giddy. 

Donut leaped from my shoulder and landed on the edge of the basket, 
looking down, eyes wide. “Carl, look! We’re rising into the air.” 

I felt my stomach lurch as the hot blast of air from above hit me. I 
grabbed a line with my hand. I twisted my arm around a few times to secure 
myself. “Christ, Donut. Be careful.” 

Below me, the form of Wynne was curled up to hide her extra height. 
Adding mass was easy, but making her smaller, especially when we wanted 
to keep her battle ready, wasn’t so simple. We rose into the air quickly. The 
timing was important here. We needed to be high enough where we could 
take our shot, but we also needed to take all the escort planes out of 
commission. 

The countdown timer for the bombing was at seven minutes. We rose 
quickly into the air. We passed the escorts, who were covering our retreat. 
Good, good. 

“He’s looking better already,” Leon said, leaning down to look upon 
Wynne. 

Katia grunted. I’d warned her against talking. She’d done her best with 
Henrik’s voice, but it’d been barely passable. I didn’t want to risk it up 


close. 

“What do you mean by ‘the final settlement of Anser?’” I asked, 
changing the subject. “Isn’t that the guy buried in the tomb?” 

It was Crixus the sniper who answered. “The bactrians and the 
dromedarians were the slaves who built the tomb. Anser came and 
subjugated them along with the glabers and forced them to their knees.” He 
spit over the edge. “The camels, alleged great fighters, were the first to fall. 
They were complicit in the horror Anser and his people brought to this 
world. They are filth and deserve to be destroyed. Once they are gone, this 
world will be better for it. That will leave us with only one last task before 
we can leave these lands and have peace.” 

“What’s that?” I asked. We continued to rise rapidly into the air. Closer, 
closer. The gnomish pilot turned a wheel, and the balloon started angling 
north, on a vector to intercept with the Wasteland. 

“The mad mage,” Crixus said. “He’s the most dangerous of them all. He 
doesn’t just wish to steal the gate. He wishes to understand it. To replicate 
it. He has grown mad in his pursuit, and we fear the damage he might do if 
he is not stopped.” 

“Wait,” I asked. “Does this mage guy have the artifact?” 

Crixus and Leon exchanged a look. A small grin played across Crixus’s 
face. 

“He only has a third of it.” 

I wanted to ask more, but we were running out of time. I peered over the 
edge of the basket. I kept my eye on the altitude indicator in my vision. 
We’d risen almost 300 meters, which I mentally converted to almost a 
thousand feet off the tomb. The escorts were now well below us, but rising 
slowly with the ship. I guessed the highest of them to be about 800 feet up, 
which was already pushing the limit. 

Carl: Ready, Donut and Katia? 

The cat remained on the edge of the basket, claws dug deep into the 
wicker. 

Donut: I AM READY. 

Katia: Ready. Donut, make sure I’m secure before you do it. It’s a 
long drop. 

Carl: Langley. Weapons free. 

Langley: Firing now. 


A moment later, eight rockets corkscrewed up into the air from the 
surface. These were all single-stage rockets, hastily built, but with 
Mordecai’s new and improved accelerant. All six archers plus Louis and 
Firas had a single launcher tube in their inventory. Each had two missiles. 
While Leon and the balloon were on the ground, Langley had doled out 
targets to everyone, and they’d used the surefire aiming system to lock the 
missiles onto each of the circling escort planes and balloons. Even before 
the first salvo hit, four more missiles blasted in the air, targeting the 
remaining planes. 

Crixus reacted quickly. He shouted, and suddenly all of their dots were 
red. I was expecting him to swing his large gun like a club. Instead, he 
dropped it and grasped at one of the grenade balls at his chest. At the same 
moment, I clutched tightly onto the rope of the balloon as I dropped a 
smoke curtain. Two Katia spikes burst forth from the duct-taped bundle, 
each piercing the wicker basket. They grew taut, anchoring her in place just 
as Donut cast Hole on the bottom of the basket, right underneath all of us. 

Donut had been practicing with the spell and could now widen the area 
of effect to a diameter of a meter and a half. It lowered the thickness of the 
hole, but that wasn’t an issue here, especially with her magic enhanced. The 
large hole wasn’t quite big enough to cover the entire basket, but it was 
close enough. 

The three gnomes dropped away just as Crixus attempted to toss the 
grenade ball at me. All three gnomes had a look of astonishment on their 
faces as they plummeted, falling along with the smoke bomb. The grenade 
ball—whatever it was—flew wide, rushing over my shoulder as I pulled my 
feet up, resting it on the bench. 

At the last moment, Leon grasped onto the edge of the hole. He started 
to pull himself up. I prepared to intercept him just as an ethereal, magical 
cat paw appeared and pushed against his head, knocking him off the edge. 
He screamed as he disappeared. 

The hole remained open just long enough for us to have a bird’s eye 
view of the first plane to explode. 

The basket pitched with more explosions as rockets found their targets. I 
held on for dear life as I looked for still-alive planes. I locked my xistera 
into place while Katia pulled the crossbow. 

“Wow,” Donut said, peering over the edge. “They’re still falling. Nope, 
not anymore.” She did a little jump on the edge of the basket that almost 


gave me a heart attack. “Level 34! Carl, I got a lot of experience for that!” 

“Jesus, Donut. Get off the goddamned edge.” 

“Really, Carl. I’m a cat. A master of balance. Whoa!” 

She slipped, but thankfully she fell inward. I didn’t have time to scold 
her. All the planes had gone down, but three balloons remained, moving up 
toward us. They rose rapidly. I couldn’t see the drivers from this angle, but 
these were smaller balloons. All three were different. One was blimp- 
shaped, one was a perfectly-round balloon painted jet black, and the third 
was three balloons tied together. This one also had a square-rigged sail, like 
on an old-school brigantine boat. 

Katia fired a few bolts at the closest airship, the one with the oblong, 
dirigible shape. The bolts had no effect on the balloons. I tossed a banger 
sphere. It bounced right off the balloon. I switched to hob lobbers, using my 
xistera to drive the round balls deep into the balloons. The balloon dimpled 
and detonated, but it did not tear. The net around the balloon caught on fire. 

Langley: I think they’re out of range, but do you want us to try our 
last missiles on those balloons? 

Carl: No. Good job, guys. Get out of there. 

We had five minutes before the bombs would fall. We were out of time. 

I yanked a can of gasoline from my inventory. I’d gotten this long, long 
ago, way back on the first floor from the goblins. I unscrewed the top and 
tossed it over the edge, aiming for the balloon with the flaming net. The 
balloon burst into flames and started spinning away, trailing black smoke. 

Crack. Something flew through the air at us from that third balloon, the 
one with the sail. I spied the sniper on the deck, leaning over the edge and 
aiming his wide-bore rifle directly up at us. This guy was similar to Crixus, 
though he wore the red hat. I watched as he pulled one of the round grenade 
things off his chest and loaded it into the rifle. What the hell are those 
things? He aimed to fire again, but he fell back as Katia bullseyed him with 
a bolt. 

“Critical hit!” Katia said. 

The sniper was dead, but the balloon kept rising. “Keep them back,” I 
called as I moved to the Vahana’s controls. I yanked on the pull for the fire 
source, and we jerked upward. Heat washed over my face, unbearably hot. I 
suddenly thought of Fire Brandy, the demon who’d killed herself on the last 
floor. 


I checked our altitude. We were pushing 500 meters, still angling north. 
The Wasteland was directly ahead of us. It had lowered itself to about two 
and a half kilometers off the tomb’s surface. We were now at the very edge 
of the missiles’ range. I wanted to get closer, but we simply didn’t have 
time. 

I intended to yank my farseer out of the inventory, but I spied one 
already attached to the side of the fire control mechanism. I grasped it and 
turned it upward. 

The bottom of the Wasteland was crawling with bungee-corded and 
harnessed gnomes preparing for the bombardment. They didn’t drop the 
bombs from bomb bays, but simply cut the chains and let gravity do the 
rest. While they only had a few of the fuel-air, city-killing Knock-Knocks 
left on the airship’s underbelly, there were dozens of round, smaller-yield 
bombs hanging there like water droplets. These had to be manually armed 
by the gnomes before they were dropped, and that was what they were 
doing now. 

I had eight guided missiles and four more unguided ones in my 
inventory. All twelve of them were pre-loaded into four-pack launchers. Of 
the eight guided missiles, I’d already assigned four of them to the few 
Knock-Knocks I’d spied on the underside right after sunrise. 

Our quick ascent suddenly stalled. 

“Let’s see how you like this!” Donut cried. I looked over in time to see 
two clockwork Mongos jump off the edge of the basket, screeching. She’d 
been forced to release the real Mongo in order to create the clockwork 
versions. Mongo was crying in fear at our height. We bobbed up and down 
with the changing weight on the basket. 

“Whoa,” Katia said. “Holy cow, Donut. That worked better than I 
thought it would.” 

Donut continued to peer over the edge at the last balloon. 

“Level 35!” she suddenly cried. 

The round balloon rushed past us, continuing its upward trajectory. The 
balloon remained intact, but the basket was a bloody mess, hanging by a 
single line. The interior of the basket dripped with gore. A single clockwork 
Mongo screeched in greeting from the bloody basket as it passed. 

She looked back at Mongo. “Your brothers are getting really good at 
this.” Mongo screeched worriedly as our own basket rocked. 


“Watch out,” Katia yelled, pointing upward. “Donut, get Mongo into his 
carrier. Fast. Carl, you better fire.” 

Someone aboard the Wasteland had finally noticed that the Vahana had 
been hijacked. One of the structures on the edge of the massive airship 
rotated, revealing itself to be a battery of cannons. It looked remarkably like 
a bundle of about 100 of the sniper rifles. It was aiming right at us. I could 
see the tip of a little red hat atop the battery as it moved in our direction 

“Hold on guys,” I yelled as I pulled the multi-launcher from my 
inventory. I rested the heavy, already-loaded mechanism on the edge of the 
basket. “Fire in the hole!” 

“Wait, wait!” Donut cried. “Mongo, get in your carrier!” The dinosaur 
refused, backing away, crying. 

Three minutes until the bombs dropped. It’d take ten to twenty seconds 
for the missiles to reach their destination. 

Jesus, we’re already too late. The town is fucked if that thing falls on it, 
with or without bombs. 

“Mongo, get in the fucking box!” I yelled. 

The dinosaur screeched and complied, zapping away just as the battery 
on the Wasteland fired at us. We lurched upward with the loss of Mongo’s 
weight. The Wasteland defensive battery belched with the staccato sound of 
a thousand rifles going off at once. A plume of smoke rose into the air as I 
fired off the first four missiles. I spun the sidewheel, and the balloon skirted 
to the side. 

The outgoing missiles and the hundred incoming projectiles passed each 
other in the air. I winced as all four of my missiles detonated prematurely. 
Experience notifications flew. I slammed down on Protective Shell just as 
the round balls smashed at us. My timing was perfect. The static shield 
quickly flew away as we continued to rise. Blood misted in the air under us. 
They’re shooting living creatures. Fucking hell. 

“Get ready to jump,” I cried, tossing the used launcher over the edge. I 
pulled the second four-missile launcher. These weren’t assigned. I targeted 
the battery and three bombs on the underside. I aimed downward so the 
missiles wouldn’t cross paths with the projectiles again, and I launched just 
as the airship’s gun battery fired a second time. 

“Jump,” I cried. 

All three of us leaped from the edge of the wicker basket just as the 
dozens of round balls smashed into it. I heard an enraged, screeching noise 


from above just before the entire world to the north exploded in a ball of 
white, hot fire. 

Wind rushed past. It was all I could hear. I tumbled and flipped through 
the air, desperately searching the sky for a point of reference. I was no 
physics guy, but I knew we had less time than we thought. The ground 
would come fast. I forced myself to ignore the spinning world outside and 
focused on the altitude and speed indicators in my vision. 

Donut: CARL, CARL, HELP I DON’T REMEMBER WHEN TO 
DRINK IT. 

Carl: Now! 

The potion was called Dolores Doesn’t Splat. 

When Mordecai had said, “You’re not going to like it,’ he was not 
kidding. 

He said it had been devised by a crocodilian crawler alchemist a long 
time ago while she was falling. As the legend went, this was a much-deeper 
pit that took almost ten minutes for her to reach the bottom. This happened 
during an early crawl. Something even before Odette’s time. The event had 
become infamous and had resulted in multiple rule changes regarding the 
creation and brewing of potions. It was actually two potions combined. The 
first was something involving the breeding of rock buffalos. The second 
was a potion that closely mimicked Katia’s Crowd Blast ability. It was 
designed to add extra power to an Earthquake-style attack. The only caveat 
was that you had to be falling at a speed greater than 200 kilometers an hour 
when you drank it. 

When Katia cast her Crowd Blast, she was temporarily invulnerable for 
that fraction of a moment. She still felt pain. Things in her body still 
crunched and hurt. But the damage wasn’t permanent or lasting. 

When each of us drank the Dolores Doesn’t Splat potion, it had the 
following effects: 

First, we actually sped up. Our five seconds to impact turned to two 
seconds. And when each of us hit the ground, our bodies temporarily 
softened the surface we were hitting, allowing us to penetrate deeper than 
normal. This had the effect of vaporizing the sand dunes we were hitting, 
and in Donut’s case, utterly demolishing the thorny devil mob she rocketed 
into. 

In order to impregnate an in-heat rock buffalo, it was required for the 
male buffalo to penetrate his lady love five times in rapid succession. I 


could have gone my entire life without knowing that random fact. 
Unfortunately for me, Katia, and Donut, this little quirk of rock monster 
husbandry was now something I would never, ever forget. 

We each slammed the ground with the force of a meteor, rose up fifteen 
feet into the air, and slammed it again. And again. Rock shattered under our 
bodies. We did this five times. By the time we were done, I rolled onto my 
back, gasping. It felt as if Pd been stepped on by Grull all over again. The 
air had all been knocked out of me. No wonder Katia hates that ability so 
much. 

I felt a strange, flowing sensation around me. I’m still falling. But no, 
that wasn’t right. It was sand, I realized, rushing past me and into the 
necropolis below. I pulled myself to my feet, my entire body protesting. I 
didn’t need a health potion, but I felt as if I did. I stared dumbly downward 
at my feet. I was literally walking on air. 

Pd hit the top of the temple, and I’d broken through, demolishing a 
section of the necropolis roof. Because I wasn’t yet allowed out of the 
quadrant, the quadrant border was keeping me from falling further. I was 
standing atop the barrier. The sand all around me had no such restrictions, 
and it continued to fall into the dark hole. 

Katia: Are you guys okay? 

To my left, I could hear Donut bitching as she pulled herself out of her 
hole. Not too far away, a loud explosion rocked the world. 

Only then did I look to the smoke-filled sky. But before I could see, a 
notification appeared. 

The notification sounded oddly disappointed. I wasn’t certain why. 

Quest Complete. Squeeze out the Juice Box. 

So, if we’re being technical here, you “won” the quest. You “saved” 
Hump Town from the bombardment. Congratulations. If I was allowed 
to upgrade your prize, I would. Maybe. I dunno. Actually, you know 
what? No. No I wouldn’t. Fuck you. 

Reward: You’ve received a Platinum Quest Box! 

I pulled myself out of the hole just as another portion of the airship 
crashed. The massive chunk of metal exploded off the edge of the bowl, 
half of it cascading down the side of the ridge, the other half falling away 
and toward the land quadrant. The sky was just a black cloud, and I could 
not see how much of it we’d gotten. Black, flaming fireflies of debris fell 
like rain. 


Gwen: Holy hell, what is going on up there? First the ocean half 
drains all away, and now the sky is on fire. 

I turned my attention to Hump Town, which was only a quarter of a 
mile away. To my relief, the town was mostly intact. Mostly. A huge chunk 
of something had landed onto the west end of town, close to where the Toe 
was located. Part of the wall had collapsed. The sail that covered the town 
was torn in multiple places. The smoke from a hundred fires rose into the 
air. As I watched, the anti-aircraft guns in one of the towers fired at an 
airplane that had managed to separate from the dreadnaught. The airplane 
banked away and disappeared into the smoke. 

Katia and Donut approached. Donut rode the back of Mongo who was 
snapping at the flying embers. 

We wordlessly looked up at the sky, waiting for the smoke to clear. The 
sound of at least a dozen airplanes continued to rip through the air, so we 
knew something was still up there. A huge hunk of debris, trailed by an 
enormous, half-deflated balloon, crashed far to the south. The ground 
rocked. 

“That was one of the main balloons,” Katia said. 

I pulled the farseer and tried to see through the clouds. Finally, the 
smoke dissipated long enough for me to get a good view. 

“Hello there,” I said to the undefended building, no bigger than a 
regular house. It hung, attached to a single balloon, which had risen all the 
way to the ceiling of the bubble. The sight reminded me of that Pixar movie 
with the kid and the old dude in the flying house. 

“Well, we didn’t get the castle. But we broke all the armor off it.” 

The balloon continued to move north, past the edge of the bowl’s ridge. 
I zoomed tighter, focusing on the gnome standing at the building’s doorway. 
It wasn’t Commandant Kane, but a young woman. Actually, a child. 
Probably about ten years old. She stood holding a farseer and was looking 
in my direction. I raised my hand to wave. She turned and went back into 
the house. In the short moment the door was open, I saw another gnome. 
This was the Commandant. It looked like it was just him and his daughter. 

“We can hit it with another missile after it flies over the bowl,” Katia 
said. “That’ll drop the stairwell to the surface.” 

“Maybe,” I said. “But I think I want to get up there and take it the old- 
fashioned way.” 

“Why?” She still had duct tape all up and down her body. 


I pulled the fake pocket watch from my inventory and tossed it to her. 
“Henrik has one, Commandant Kane has one, and I’m pretty sure there’s a 
third, and the Mad Dune Mage guy has it. If that’s the case, I think all three 
of the watches come together somehow to make that artifact. The Gate of 
the Feral Gods.” 

“You don’t even know what it does,” she said. 

“I know it’s a celestial-equivalent item,” I said. “And it shouldn’t be 
available this early. They don’t put this stuff in here to be ignored. I want it. 
First we’re going to take the watch from Henrik, then we’re going to get to 
that castle, take the throne room and take the watch from Kane, and then 
we’re going to get the third and final piece from the mage.” 

She looked at me dubiously. “You know we just barely survived this, 
right?” 

“Carl, Carl, I just got my benefactor box!” Donut said. “Also, I went up 
yet another level to 36. I think we might’ve killed a lot of gnomes.” 

“We did,” I said, looking in the direction of the last bit of the Wasteland, 
barely holding onto life. I couldn’t see it with my naked eye, but I sensed it 
there. I’d gone up two levels to 43, and I was on the precipice of 44. I 
wondered just how many gnomes we’d just killed. 

Zev: Hey guys! Wow, that was fantastic. Great job. Your social 
numbers are looking great! 

Donut: ZEV! OH MY GOD I MISSED YOU! WHEN CAN I SEE 
YOU? 

Zev: Sorry, Crawler Donut. Pm just your social media manager 
now. I will be able to give you tips on how the audience is feeling, but 
Administrator Loita is now in charge of all public appearances. You 
are not able to message me directly unless I open the chat. 

Donut: ARE YOU OKAY? 

Zev: I’ve never been better. Thank you for your concern, Donut. 
Carl, the audience is noting that you’re being short with the other 
crawlers. By short, I mean extra angry. You might wish to tone that 
down a bit. Katia, your numbers are rising steadily. Good job. Donut, 
people want more Mongo action. You’re keeping him cooped up too 
much. Plus you haven’t used your new spells yet except once. When 
you get new loot, people expect you to use it. 

Donut looked up at me, concern etched on her face. 

Donut: OKAY WE WILL. WHY CAN’T I MESSAGE YOU? 


Zev: It’s not necessary, crawler. Don’t worry, I will let you know if 
there are any additional areas of concern. Now get back out there and 
kill, kill, kill! 


OceanofPDE:com 


[ 13 ] 


INSTEAD OF MEETING UP WITH THE OTHERS IN THE BACTRIAN RUINS, WE 
limped our way back to Hump Town. Above, dozens of airplanes and 
airships continued to angrily harass the air defenses of the city, but without 
the threat of high-altitude bombardment, the multiple anti-air guns were 
equal to the task. The gnomes were on borrowed time. Some were already 
landing on the far side of the bowl. I noted that several were flying up and 
above the lip of the bowl and then disappearing, presumably to seek a 
landing spot somewhere on the land quadrant. I sent a warning to Gwen. 

Without protection and shelter, the surviving gnomes would be hard- 
pressed to make it through the next day. 

Donut was worried about Zev, and it was doubly frustrating, I knew, 
because she couldn’t talk about it. Not out loud and not over chat. I reached 
over and stroked her back. Her entire body was stiff. 

I flipped through my achievements as we trudged back to town. Despite 
everything we’d done, I hadn’t received much. There was only one 
achievement of note: 

New Achievement! Cannonball! 

You fell from a great height, and you survived! You know who else 
fell from a...? You know what, never mind. Fuck you. 

Reward: You’ve received a Silver Skydiver’s Box! Not that you 
deserve it you little punk. 

The system AI was always fluctuating back and forth from adoring to 
outright hostile, but this was the moodiest I’d ever seen, and I didn’t know 
why. Sure, the thing was bipolar at best and psychotic the rest of the time, 


but ever since we’d blown the Wasteland to hell there was just something 
off with it. 

That was not good. 

As we approached the gates of Hump Town, keeping our heads low to 
avoid detection from the airplanes, we started to notice multiple X’s on the 
map. These were gnomes who’d fallen from the Wasteland when it had 
broken up. Most of them exploded like tomatoes upon impact, but a few 
here and there were intact enough that we could loot their bodies. Most 
didn’t have much on them. Donut was going around collecting their little 
red hats. I picked up a few intact bodies to add to my ever-growing 
graveyard. I looted some tools, lots of broken hunks of metal and cogs and 
springs, plus the odd gold coin and little bits of unenchanted armor here and 
there. 

All of them said the same thing. Dirigible Gnome Corpse — Killed by 
falling from a great height with an assist by the Crawler Bitch Boy 
Carl. 

“What did you do?” Katia asked. “I’m starting to get more than a little 
worried about this.” 

“T don’t know,” I said, “but hopefully it gets over it soon.” I looked up 
into the air. “I don’t know what I did, but I promise it wasn’t on purpose.” 

“This is just like with you and Miss Beatrice,” Donut said. “Do you 
remember that time she made you sleep on the couch for a week and 
wouldn’t tell you why she was mad?” 

“I do remember,” I said. I shrugged. “I think it was because I’d bought 
the wrong type of coffee pods. I ended up beating Fallout because of it.” 

Donut laughed. “It was because she’d read an article that said big fights 
make relationships stronger, and sometimes they cause guys to propose.” 

Katia shook her head. “That does not sound healthy. Not that I’m one to 
judge.” 

We came across a group of three intact corpses, all gnomish snipers. All 
three had their giant rifles with them, but only one of the weapons wasn’t 
broken. They all also wore the bandoliers over their shoulders. The little 
balls on all the bandoliers were gone except on one gnome who’d landed on 
his back. His was still unbroken with five grenade balls. Donut jumped 
forward, looted the good rifle along with their little red hats. She made a 
face, and then she looted the good bandolier. 


“Carl,” Donut said a moment later. “I believe I figured it out. It appears 
you have given the system AI a case of... what is the term? Oh yes, I 
believe it is called ‘blue balls.’” 

“What? What do you mean?” 

She dropped the bandolier at my feet, and I picked it up. 

I examined one of the fist-sized grenade balls. I was confused for a 
moment, but then I finally understood. 

Live Ammo Ball. 

Live ammo balls are a common and versatile ranged weapon of the 
Dirigible Gnomes. These round, clamshell spheres are designed to be 
fired great distances using a gnomish Tickle Stick, or they may be 
manually lobbed like a grenade. They are also fired in large clusters 
from anti-aircraft point defense batteries. Just be glad you’re not in 
charge of cleaning up that mess. 

A living, usually angry, creature is placed inside the ball, and the 
ball opens upon impact with the target. The stasis field keeps the 
creature within safe from injury until the ball is opened. 

These balls are similar in technology to pet carriers. As such, any 
mobs stored within are able to be placed within one’s inventory. Balls 
may be recycled if the mechanism doesn’t break upon impact. They 
usually break upon impact. 

This ball contains: 

Frenzied Gerbil. Level 11. 

I groaned. Every single ball contained the same thing. A goddamned 
frenzied gerbil. 

During that last battle, there were multiple instances when I’d almost 
been hit with one of these balls. First, Crixus the sniper had thrown one at 
me, but it missed and sailed over the edge. Then a sniper from one of the 
other airships had fired and missed. And then the Wasteland had blasted a 
hundred of them at us. Each time, the balls had overflown their mark. 

I remembered Ralph, the boss from the second floor. He was also a 
frenzied gerbil. It was right before we’d found Mongo in that prize room. 
The system AI had been particularly... excited about how I had killed the 
creature. 

“Fuck me,” I said as I fully realized what was going on. 

The AI had wanted me to get hit with the gerbil ball. It wanted me to 
fight one. It wanted me to kill it by smushing it with my foot. I looked at the 


five balls hanging off the belt like fist-sized Christmas ornaments. I 
swallowed. Go ahead, I thought. Drop one on the ground. They’re only 
level 11. Easy to kill on their own. I suddenly felt dirty, and I hadn’t even 
done anything yet. 

No, I thought. Fuck you. There was only so much a person could take. 

I became aware that Donut was loudly explaining to Katia what was 
going on, since our boss battle with Ralph had been before we’d met up 
with her. 

“_,.And after he squished down on poor Ralph with his foot, the whole 
dungeon shook like Carl used to after he went on that website that gave his 
computer a virus. And we’d received a prize room after that, and that’s 
where we found Mongo. Right, Mongo?” 

Mongo waved his arms and screeched in agreement. 

“The dungeon did the same thing when Carl got stomped on by Grull,” 
Katia said. She appeared to be half amused, half horrified. 

“Oh that was nothing compared to the first time. You know, I always 
thought its infatuation with our Carl was a good thing,” Donut said, “but if 
the AI is going to throw a temper tantrum every time Carl doesn’t wrap his 
tootsies around a furry little creature, it’s going to be a problem. Carl, we 
should start stocking up on squish-sized creatures so you can sacrifice one 
every morning. At least now we have a five-pack of gerbils. Maybe you 
should do two at the same time. You know, to make sure everyone is back 
to being happy with one another again. It’d be almost like having a 
threesome. On Gossip Girl, there was this one episode where Dan and...” 

“No,” I said, interrupting. “No fucking way. Fuck the consequences. I 
am absolutely not going...” 

“Guys,” Katia said. “We have incoming. A lot of incoming.” 

I looked up at the map just as the red wave of dots appeared. There were 
thousands of them. Where had they come from? 

“They’re gerbils,” Donut said, her voice in awe. “Wow. That’s a lot of 
them.” 

“Goddamnit,” I said. “Goddamnit to hell.” I realized what had 
happened. With all the gnomish snipers and Wasteland chunks raining from 
the sky, there were likely hundreds, if not thousands, of those ammo balls 
up there. They were designed to survive heavy impacts. Holy shit they’re 
moving fast. They’d likely all been released and then found each other. Now 
that they’d regrouped, they were coming in hot. 


“Carl,” said Donut, “I don’t think your friend up in the sky is going to 
take ‘no’ for an answer.” 
“Fuck me,” I said as we rushed toward the main gate. 


“Carl, they’re cheating!” Donut cried after ten solid minutes of fighting. A 
gerbil launched itself at me, and I cried out as it attached itself to my neck. I 
grasped it with my gauntlet and squeezed before it could burrow. It 
exploded in my hand. “They keep coming and coming.” 

Donut cast Wall of Fire just as the next wave of gerbils shot at our 
defensive line. That ended up being a mistake. 

The little bastards could launch themselves through the air, and when 
they passed through Donut’s magical fire, they ignited, turning into 
miniature, gnashing fireballs. The fire killed the attackers, eventually, but 
not before they attached to the chests of the camel defenders, catching them 
on fire in the process. 

We’d been pushed all the way back to the entrance of Weird Shit Alley. 
The town’s walls had too many holes to properly defend, so we’d run 
through the main gates, screaming for the defenders to fall back. There 
were just too many of them. Even though the screeching little fuckers were 
only level 11, they could burrow themselves straight into flesh and eat their 
way out through to the other side. 

The dromedarians were forced to abandon their anti-air guns to meet the 
creatures. But the things never stopped coming. All around us, camels 
fought and fell. 

Katia converted to her tank form with the shield on her arm and her 
crossbow over her head while I tossed hob-lobbers into the street using my 
xistera, killing dozens of them at a time. Mongo and two clockwork 
versions roared and snapped and crunched on the gerbils. A camel fired a 
rocket into the carpet of monsters only to be overwhelmed a moment later. 

“Don’t swallow them whole,” I warned Mongo. I remembered a danger 
dingo had done that once, and it hadn’t ended well for the dingo. 

I punched then punted another gerbil. I had to be careful with the timing 
of my attacks. The monsters’ mouths opened bigger than should be 


possible, and they could get their physics-defying jaws around my entire 
fist if I wasn’t careful. 

Donut was right. There were too many of these things. These weren’t 
just from the wreckage. They were being generated. This was a punishment. 
Goddamnit. If this continued, we were going to lose the town. “Fuck you,” I 
growled up into the air. “Fuck you to hell.” 

I tossed a smoke curtain followed by a pair of hob-lobbers. I stepped 
over the hastily-constructed barricade and waded out toward the street. 
“Everyone stay back,” I called. 

“Carl, Carl, what are you doing?” Donut yelled. 

I extended my left arm shield. I caught a flying gerbil with the auto- 
buckler, and it fell hard to the ground, blinded and dazed. I was too tired to 
fight it anymore. 

I stepped down on the squirming gerbil. 


“This is not so funny anymore,” Katia said, looking over the mass of gerbil 
corpses. The bewildered camels moved back to the walls and the anti- 
aircraft guns, though it appeared all of the remaining airplanes had made 
emergency landings. All that was left was a handful of balloons, and most 
of those were making their way up and over the bowl, leaving the area. 

“Tt was never funny,” I replied. I had blood up to my kneepads. I’d 
stepped on and smushed at least fifty of the things before the wave had 
stopped, as suddenly as it had started. I needed a shower. A long shower. 

“Tt was a little funny,” she said. “But the AI is not even trying to be fair 
anymore. That wasn’t just a temper tantrum. That was the equivalent of a 
psycho ex-boyfriend going nuts and trying to murder you and your entire 
family because of something you didn’t even know you did.” 

I nodded. I had a new achievement. I was the only one who’d received 
it. I was afraid to click on it. I did anyway. 

New Achievement! You’re the reason why daddy drinks! 

You have, for an unspecified reason, raised the ire of the System AI. 
You have corrected the issue, and everything is back to normal. The 
acceleration action has been suspended. This time. 

Good boy. 


Reward: You’ve received a Gold Makeup Sex is the Best Sex box. 

You’re not going to break me. Fuck you all. I will break you. 

“Acceleration?” Katia said after I read the description to the others. 
“My original game guide mentioned that before.” 

“Yeah,” I said. “We’ve been threatened with it a few times. That... that 
really sucked.” 

“You didn’t even do anything wrong,” she said, shaking her head. 

“At least you two are back together now,” Donut said. “And you got a 
nice box out of it. I know you find it unpleasant, Carl. But you being 
stubborn about this is causing everything to be more dangerous. We have to 
kill these things anyway, so if the AI wants you to kill in a certain way, I 
don’t see why it matters. This is just like one of those agility courses that 
Miss Beatrice used to insist I complete at all the regional cat shows. I did 
not like doing it, and I never ribboned of course, but I knew if I did well, I 
would get an extra brushing that evening. We are all prostitutes in one way 
or another, I suppose. ” 

“I...” I was too tired to argue. “Let’s go let everyone out of the personal 
space. I need a nap.” 

Louis and the others had made it to the Bactrian ruins and were 
searching the remains for loot and any other signs of life, including other 
crawlers. So far they’d found nothing except a single saferoom that was 
abandoned but still useable and a caved-in Club Vanquisher entrance that 
was useless anyway because nobody in the group had a pass. They were 
going to spend the rest of the day grinding and searching. They’d weather 
the sand storm in the saferoom before returning. In the meantime, we’d 
open our boxes and reset and then formulate a new plan to get into the now- 
undefended castle. 

The camels went to work repairing the wall, putting out fires, and 
mending the fabric cover for the sand storm. The changelings, Donut noted, 
were all but gone from the ranks of the camels. I hadn’t thought about it 
during the chaotic fight with the gerbils, but all of the fallen had been true 
dromedarians. She didn’t see any of the changeling principals about, 
including Henrik. 

The Toe had been mostly destroyed. A massive chunk of Wasteland had 
taken out the whole block. Luckily we could still go through the front door 
and enter the personal space. I’d been worried that if we’d lost the entrance 
here, all the NPCs still inside would be stuck. 


The dromedarian children were in the middle of watching Toy Story 3 
when we entered, and they insisted on finishing it before they left. For some 
of these kids, their parents were likely now dead. They probably needed to 
get back out there. But I didn’t have the heart or energy to say no, so I left 
them alone. Let them have their movie, I thought. Juice Box sat upon the 
kitchen counter, chatting away with Mordecai while the cleaner bot zipped 
about the room, clicking and beeping angrily, cleaning juice stains. 

“They’re all gone,” I said to Juice Box as we all settled in. “Henrik 
disappeared soon after the Wasteland fell.” 

She shrugged. “I am not a principal. Those guys have their own thing 
going on. They’re probably in the necropolis looking for that ghost. I don’t 
know what they’re going to do when they find her since you killed off the 
flesh mechanic, but those guys are crazy.” 

“The temple is flooding with water. They’re not going to get very far.” 

She just looked at me. “They’re changelings. The water will be no 
problem.” She hopped off the table. “Now I better get out there and see how 
much of the town you three blew up.” 

After we’d won that last quest, we’d all received a charisma bonus 
when dealing with changelings. I could already see the effects. We needed 
to talk more with Juice Box regarding this whole storyline with Henrik and 
the ghost in the necropolis, but first she needed to get out there and see we 
had indeed saved the town. I watched her head outside. 


I had three boxes to open, Donut had three, and Katia had two. Juice Box 
had left, but the horde of children remained, all glued to the screen. All 
three of us received the same Silver Skydiver’s box, and all three of them 
contained the same thing. Three potions of Half Splat. 

Mordecai grunted. “Keep those in your hotlist until you can get a real 
Featherfall, but they’re not that great. They’ll keep you from dying via 
falling damage, but you’ ll be at 5% health after you hit the ground.” 

“They’re still better than that Dolores Doesn’t Splat potion,” I 
grumbled. 

“Hey now,” Mordecai said. “That potion is genius. It may not be 
pleasant, but your health was still at 100% when you landed.” 


I grumbled as I opened my next box. The Gold Makeup Sex is the Best 
Sex box. 

“What is this?” I asked, picking up the group of items. It was a sheet of 
paper and a quill pen. There was also a little jar that was capped and filled 
with black ink. 

“Odd,” Mordecai said, leaning in to examine the prize. “These aren’t 
rare, but they’re pricey. They’re used by scholar and arcanist classes who 
focus on scroll production. You’ll never have the proper skills to use this 
beyond a rudimentary level. If you can figure out how to write some basic 
scrolls, maybe you can make some money.” He shrugged. “I can use it, but 
I’m much better at potions. Besides, I can buy a writing table and be much 
more efficient. Your best bet is to just sell the set.” 

The last of my boxes was the platinum quest box. I held my breath as I 
opened it. I needed something good. Everything I’d been getting lately was 
either weird or something I couldn’t use just yet. 

The box opened. It contained 5,000 gold coins, twenty healing scrolls, 
and a little black rock. 

“Excellent,” Mordecai said. “Good, good. This was what I was talking 
about earlier. You’re starting to get items that will enhance your existing 
items. You have to use it now. This is for your gauntlet. All three of you are 
likely to get something like this.” 

I examined the black rock. 

Platinum Sharpening Stone. 

Warning: This item has a short shelf life. 

Apply this to any spiked offensive weapon to receive the following 
buffs. 

Plus (2 x current level)% damage to all attacks. 

Plus 1 to all current stat buffs. Does not add new buffs if they do not 
exist. 

It also makes the weapon look extra oily and mean looking. In other 
words, the weapon’s appearance may change. But only a little. 

Since the item had a short shelf life, I had to apply it right away. I 
formed my gauntlet and rubbed the rock it along the spikes. The whole 
thing glowed. The actual spikes grew a little longer. I received an extra 
point of dexterity and another to strength when the gauntlet was formed. 

I examined the other prize, the paper and inkwell, as Katia opened her 
Platinum box. 


Coffee Shop Author Kit. 

Alcoholism and crippling self-doubt not included. 

So you want to be a writer. It started with sappy poetry in middle 
school. You soon graduated to Naruto fanfiction. By the time you crash 
landed face-first into adulthood, your brain swelled with the misguided 
notion that your shitty novel with a self-insert protagonist sporting a 
traumatic childhood would change the world. Spoiler alert. Nobody is 
going to read your autobiography disguised as a space vampire and 
minotaur romance. You and every other half-wit out there with a 
nearby Starbucks and a laptop is writing the same bile. What you’re 
really doing is inadvertently live-blogging the story of human 
mediocrity, and the universe is now a better place that the Syndicate 
has put a stop to it all. 

Anyway, this is a magical sheet of paper. You will find you now have 
a second tab on your scratchpad in your interface. You can write 
something on this paper, and it will appear in the scratchpad and vice 
versa. If the proper spell and glyphs are accurately copied onto this 
paper, you can present the sheet at a market kiosk, and a scroll will 
appear for sale. Or if you have a printing press, you can make your 
own scrolls. Or even your own tome if you think you have the chops. 

I panicked at the mention of a second tab in my scratchpad. I already 
had a secret second one thanks to my cookbook. But thankfully I now had 
three tabs, with the cookbook tab being the last. I relaxed and turned my 
attention back to the paper. 

“Tm confused. I can just write out a scroll, and it’ll let me put a copy 
for sale in the market?” I asked, looking at the blank magical scroll. “How 
many can I sell? Will I lose this paper?” 

“Writing your own scroll requires skills you don’t have,” Mordecai said. 
“Itd take a week of practice just to write a simple Light scroll. Potions are 
much better, especially this season with the unlimited inventory. The only 
advantage is that you can sell unlimited scrolls in the market as long as you 
keep the spell written on the magical sheet. Once you erase it from your 
scratchpad, it’s gone from the market. You can get a printing press table and 
make your own scrolls, or you can set the price as low as it’ll let you and 
buy your own scrolls from the market. I saw one guy do that last season 
with Fireball scripts. Actually, that worked out really well for him. Turns 
out if you use the same scroll more than 200 times, you learn the spell.” 


I went to the new tab and wrote, “Does this work?” 

The magical pen rose into the air as the top popped off the ink well. The 
pen dipped within and wrote out “Does this work?” I drew a rudimentary 
cat portrait, and the pen copied my work. 

Donut looked at the cat art with distaste. “Am I a joke to you, Carl?” 

I laughed as I deleted the image in the scratchpad, and it faded away 
from the paper. 

“This is both cool and completely useless,” I said. 

“The ink isn’t bottomless, so don’t play with it too much,” Mordecai 
added. 

“Carl, are you quite done? I have a very important box to open, and you 
promised you’d watch me do it. And we still have to learn what Katia had 
gotten!” Donut said impatiently. She had her benefactor box from Veriluxx 
RealPet Companions. The one that Loita had said wasn’t a real box, but a 
“product sample.” 

In addition to the same basic items, Katia received a single crossbow 
bolt. “It replaces the free, unlimited basic ammo the crossbow normally 
comes with. It adds armor piercing and adds damage based on my level.” 

“That’s pretty cool,” I said, putting all my new gear into my inventory. I 
turned to Donut. “Let’s see what you got.” 

“Oh, goodie!” She hopped up and down a few times, her tail swishing 
back and forth. She’d removed her sunglasses, and her eyes gleamed. “Now 
remember, Carl. We have a television program to go on in a few days where 
we review the product. So pay careful attention. I do hope it’s an accessory 
for Mongo.” 

Mongo screeched in agreement. 

The benefactor box opened, and we all just stood there, staring at what 
popped out. 

Katia burst out laughing. 

It was Donut. A toy, robot Donut. 

The cat hopped out of the box, took a few steps out onto the table and 
started licking her paw in a stilted, mechanical manner. She was about %4’s 
the size of the real deal, and her fur was wrong, like she was made out of rat 
hair. The thing looked to be made with technology only slightly advanced 
from where we were from before the collapse. Definitely not on the same 
level as the planet-destroying, dungeon-making Syndicate. The mini-Donut 


looked up at the room and said with a voice that wasn’t even close, “I sure 
do like lasagna. I hate Mondays, Carl.” The cat resumed licking itself. 

Donut continued staring at the thing open-mouthed as I examined its 
properties. The voice describing it was not the system AI, but a slightly- 
Static, pre-recording of a deep voice that sounded like it came straight from 
a 1980’s toy commercial. 

Veriluxx RealPet Dungeon Crawl Special Edition Exclusive. 

“Princess Donut the Queen Anne Chonk.” 

Dungeon Crawler World: Earth. 

The ultimate play toy, Veriluxx RealPet Companions are budget- 
friendly, nearly indestructible collectibles that will give your child 
hours and hours of fun. Because these interactive toys do not require 
an implant certificate to play with and enjoy, parents needn’t worry 
about how many hours their children are spending with their new best 
friends! 

Mix and match! They fight! They love! They will share your 
deepest, darkest secrets! Each Veriluxx RealPet Companion is a fully 
licensed depiction of your favorite personality or creature. The 
onboard AI comes preprogrammed with a 100% accurate and realistic 
persona, and it will learn as it goes. It’s like having a real pet, but 
better! Available on the Syndicate Trade Network. Mongo companion 
sold separately. 

Veriluxx. For the children. 

Action-grip Hekatonkheires coming soon! 

“Lasagna?” Mordecai asked. 

“Its Garfield,” Katia said. “It’s like they didn’t have enough Donut 
material, so they mixed her with the Garfield comic strip.” 

The robot cat sniffed about the air. “Ferdinand?” She looked at Mongo. 
“You’re not Ferdinand.” 

Ruby, the deformed, armless changeling was sitting nearby, eyes glued 
to the television screen, but she turned now as the robot approached her. 
She was in her weird, blank changeling form. She made a muted, terrified 
squeal and ran from the table. 

“Hey kid, it’s not going to hurt you. It’s a talking toy. Just like in the 
movie,” Mordecai said, moving away to go talk to her. 

Donut still had not said anything. She remained where she’d opened the 
box, stiff as a board. 


“Uh, Donut,” I asked. “You doing okay?” 

“Pm sorry, Carl,” the robot said, her head turning 180 degrees to look 
back at me. “The void is wet and hungry.” 

“Not you,” I said to the weird robot. “Donut?” 

Donut finally looked up, her yellow eyes shining. “They... they made a 
doll out of me, Carl. It’s merch. I have merch. This is the greatest thing that 
has ever happened since I won Grand Champion Best in Show last year in 
Cleveland.” 

Mongo continued to sniff at the imposter cat. 

“Are you a cocker spaniel?” the robot asked the dinosaur. The toy 
hissed and swished its tail at Mongo. “Cocker spaniels deserve to have their 
corpses desecrated.” 

Mongo screeched. 

“No, bad Mongo! Bad!” Donut cried, but it was too late. Mongo 
chomped the robot on the head, decapitating it. The body seized up and fell 
onto its side, smoke rising from within. The whole thing flashed and then 
caught on fire. The cleaner bot zipped over, beeping angrily and doused it 
with white foam. 

I fell over with laughter. 

“So much for being ‘nearly-indestructible,’” Katia said. 

Donut sniffed and poked the still-smoldering remains. Mongo continued 
to look indignant. A static shock burst out, striking Donut on the nose, and 
she howled. 

“This is most certainly going into my review.” 


Donut’s platinum quest box contained the same thing her last platinum 
quest box contained. A pair of fang caps and a skill potion. She promptly 
drank the potion down, and it added three points to her Animal Wrangling 
skill, bringing it up to eight. 

The last set of fang caps had given Mongo a damage buff and the ability 
to add a few debuffs like poison and paralyze, though neither seemed to 
happen often. Usually the mobs were dead if the dinosaur got to the point 
where he was chomping down on them. These two additional caps added 
15% movement speed and 15% strength to the level-29 dinosaur. Once 


again, Donut made me place them on the dinosaur’s teeth. He had a little 
piece of robot Donut in there I had to fish out. 

After, I spent some time cleaning up the rest of the dead robot while 
Donut grumbled and complained. “I will not have my merch published by a 
company who puts out a shoddy product. I can’t wait to give them an 
earful.” 

“Yeah,” I said. “We should probably tell them not to use the Garfield 
thing, either. I’m not so sure they were using... official Garfield sources for 
their AI.” 

The movie finally ended, and the children reluctantly filed out of the 
space and back into the real world. Their version of it, at least. I walked 
them out while Donut remained inside. Katia and Mordecai were about to 
go to the Desperado to pick up some more supplies. We had to prepare for 
the assault on the floating house. 

“Can we come back tomorrow and watch another movie?” Skarn asked 
as we left. 

“Maybe,” I said, distracted. I looked up in the air. The town’s covering 
was half up, and the dromedarians worked desperately to repair the rest of it 
before the next sandstorm. Through one of the many empty spaces, I looked 
up into the sky. I couldn’t see it without the telescope I’d stolen from the 
kid, but I sensed it there. The remains of the castle. I sighed. 

I was so preoccupied, I didn’t see the blue dot approach. 

“Hello, Carl,” a deep, rumbly voice said. 

I turned to look at the tall rock monster. He looked similar to the guards 
at the Desperado, but he was made of red and black lava rocks. He had a 
whole mess of boss kills over his head and a trio of player killer skulls. The 
last time I’d seen him, he’d been magic-based. It appeared that he’d 
switched focus. He had a large, glowing spear hanging over his shoulder. 

“Hello, Chris,” I replied. “I’m glad to see you.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 14 ] 


I STARED UP AT THE LEVEL 35 CREATURE AS THE CHILDREN ALL MOVED OFF. 
He towered over me, standing at least seven and a half feet tall. I examined 
his properties. 

Crawler #324,116. “Chris Andrews 2” 

Level 35. 

Race: Igneous. 

Class: Zulu Warrior. 

Every time he moved, it sounded like rocks scraping together. I could 
feel the heat coming off him, like the center of his body was molten. He’d 
probably set Donut’s heat vision haywire. Chris returned my gaze, and I 
couldn’t read his expressionless face. His intense eyes were burning lumps 
of coal. 

“How did you get here so fast?” I finally asked. 

“I was in the water quadrant. There was a giant submarine called the 
Akula. We had to break in, and it was filled with robots. There was a 
bugbear head in a jar with mechanical spider legs, and we woke it up by 
accident.” He grunted. “It’s a long story. I smashed the glass, and that was 
it. We took the bridge, and it was over. But as soon as we did, the sub fired 
a torpedo right into the side of the mountain, and everything started getting 
sucked into the hole. Water started to fill the sub, so we had to run. We had 
three escape hatches. They were missile launch tubes, one leading to each 
of the other quadrants. The only other two survivors got in the tube that 
leads to the land quadrant, but I couldn’t fit with them. I didn’t want to go 
into the tunnels, so I came here. It fired me in the air, and I landed on a 
giant sand dune. It was wild. I thought for sure I was going to get broken 


into a million pieces. I landed here and I was heading toward this town 
when you—I’m assuming it was you—blew that giant thing out of the sky.” 

I nodded. All of that made sense in the context of what I knew about the 
water quadrant. 

I sent a quick note to Donut, Mordecai, Katia, and Imani, telling them 
what was happening. I told Donut to remain inside for now until I could get 
a sense of his state of mind. Katia and Mordecai were almost at the 
Desperado, about to purchase some supplies. We still hadn’t slept. 

I couldn’t stop thinking about Odette’s cryptic warning. 

Donut: MY VIEWERS ARE SPIKING REALLY HIGH. CHECK 
YOURS. SOMETHING IS HAPPENING. 

I never actually kept track of what the average view count was, which, I 
was realizing now, was a mistake. Donut actually had the little needle up at 
all times on her interface. I rarely went into the relevant tab. I needed to 
stop being so stubborn about it because it was a good indicator that shit was 
about to go down. 

Katia: I just received an emergency benefactor box. A silver one. 
We’re going to open it up in the other safe room. The one in Weird Shit 
Alley. It’s closer. 

Carl: Is it from the Squim Conglomerate? 

Katia: No. From Princess Formidable. 

Mordecai: It’s an emergency box. She needs to open it now. That 
box probably cost the princess a sizeable chunk of her net worth. We’ll 
keep you updated. 

A chill rushed over me. What was going on? This was Chris. Surely he 
couldn’t have changed that much. I was on full alert, but I didn’t feel ready. 
If something was about to happen, I wasn’t prepared for it. I’d already used 
up my daily Protective Shell while we were falling from the Wasteland 
attack. I hadn’t felt this tense about another player since we’d had the fight 
with Hekla. I hated this. I hated not being able to trust someone who was 
supposed to be my friend. 

And what was worse, I didn’t know why. I had no idea what was 
happening. 

“Chris,” I began. “I... why haven’t you spoken to anybody? Imani is 
really worried about you.” I didn’t want to bring up his brother now, but we 
had to get it out of the way. I needed to hear his answer. “And your brother. 
Surely you know what happened.” 


Chris waved a big, rocky hand. “I take damage if I use the chat feature, 
so I do not waste time or energy using it.” 

“What?” I asked. “That doesn’t make sense. It’s part of the system 
interface.” 

He shrugged. “It comes with being an igneous. I can’t pull things in and 
out of inventory or go into my health pie chart, either, without losing health. 
I got it in exchange for having a very high constitution.” 

“Tve never heard of that. That can’t be normal. We’ll talk to Mordecai, 
our manager. We’ll see if we can figure out what’s going on and if there’s a 
way to fix it. PII message Imani, too. We’ ll all figure it out together. Your 
friends and family are worried about you.” 

“My family is dead,” he said. “It doesn’t matter. Family and friends 
make you weak. Having someone to care over and protect makes you 
vulnerable. You taught me that.” 

“I taught you? How?” Jesus. If he didn’t have the name floating over 
him, I’d never guess this was the same guy. Imani wasn’t kidding when she 
said the race change had affected his personality. 

He didn’t answer the question. “We are wasting time. You haven’t taken 
the castle yet. Is it still aloft? Where is the cat? We will go hunt it down 
together.” 

“Donut is in the saferoom. Come on, we’ll go in together and talk.” 

I needed to get him into the saferoom where I wouldn’t have to worry 
about anybody doing something stupid. 

“T don’t like saferooms,” he said after a moment. He looked up into the 
air. “Is the castle still there? How are you going to take it out? Another 
missile?” 

“No,” I said. “We’re going to fly up there and storm it the old-fashioned 
way.” 

Carl: There’s something wrong with him. He’s acting squirrelly. I 
think he’s about to attack me. 

Imani: He can fire lava out of his body. Be careful. Try not to hurt 
him. 

I needed to keep him talking. “Let me ask you something, Chris. Why 
did you kill Frank?” 

“You heard about that, huh?” 

A human appeared and stopped between us, her hands on her hips. 
“Who’s the stud?” she asked, looking Chris up and down. 


“Juice Box,” I said, “meet Chris.” 

“You’re a big ‘un,” she said, practically purring the words. “Sexy.” She 
put her hand on his rocky arm, and then jerked it away as if she’d been 
shocked. “Hot, too,” she said after a moment. She took a step back and 
turned to me. “Well, you said you’d save the town. I guess you did. We lost 
some camels, but not nearly as many as I feared. The place is a mess, and 
my house is wrecked. But my people are mostly safe, and for that, I’m 
grateful.” 

I nodded, not removing my eyes from Chris who was looking down at 
where she’d touched him. “You owe me a discussion about your fellow 
changelings. That was the deal. After I’m done talking with my friend here, 
we should sit down and go over what you know.” 

“The Spit and Swallow is still in one piece,” Juice Box said. “We can all 
go in there and talk about Quetzalcoatlus and why my brother is so 
desperate to get his hand on the ghost.” She returned her gaze to Chris. 
“You can bring these two guys. We can all party afterward.” She suddenly 
grabbed my hand. “Carl, let’s go now.” 

Chris shook his large head. “I really wish you hadn’t said that.” 

“Two?” I asked, confused. 

“Tt’s funny,” Chris said after a moment. “When I first got here to this 
floor, I thought for sure I was dead. But it was easy, you know, to take out 
the submarine. I don’t think that flying castle will be so hard, either. I see all 
those airplanes parked over there. There are hot air balloons now sitting in 
the desert. I’m starting to think this whole floor is easier than it should be.” 

“Tm glad you’re confident,” I replied, taking another step back. Juice 
Box’s grip on my wrist was like a shackle. 

“But the more hope I have, the more conflicted I get. Seeing you... I 
think I finally made up my mind. I keep going back and forth, but all of a 
sudden I am resolved. I don’t want to get out of here anymore. Isn’t that 
funny? It’s like I have a choice now. I can choose to not live like this.” 

“Chris,” I said. “I don’t know what the fuck is going on. Brandon left a 
message for you. Let’s go sit down and talk about it.” 

“Come on,” Juice Box said, pulling. Her grip was surprisingly strong. 

“I actually have two daughters,” Chris said. “You only know about the 
one, but there’s another. She’s older. From my first marriage. She was 
home, so she died in the collapse. Our game guide when we first got in 
here, he told us all about it. He said she might come back. People who die 


in the collapse aren’t really dead, but they’re put in storage. Only you can’t 
save them. I think about that a lot. They bring them out sometimes, but it’s 
never for good. They can be changed. They force you to kill them on the 
deeper floors. He told me about a crawler that was forced to face down his 
whole family. He killed himself instead.” 

I felt a chill wash over me. 

“I wasn’t aware you had any children, Chris,” I said. “And your game 
guide is a woman. Her name is Mistress Tiatha.” 

“T can’t kill anybody else in my family, Carl. I can’t.” 

It hit me, then. All at once. I cursed myself for not seeing it. This wasn’t 
Chris. 

This was Maggie. Maggie My. But how? 

“You’re a changeling. Or a doppelganger,” I said, taking another step 
back. 

“No,” Juice Box said. “She ain’t no changeling. She’s worse.” 

“No,” Maggie-Chris agreed. She suddenly had a round, spiked ball in 
her hand. “I was waiting for the cat to come out, but she’s too much of a 
coward I guess. They promised me if I did it this way, they wouldn’t...” 

The crossbow bolt slammed into Maggie’s head, and she dropped, 
crashing heavily to the street. The ball in her hand hit the ground and started 
to roll away. I dived for it, dislodging myself from Juice Box’s grip. It 
wasn’t a bomb. I didn’t know what it was, but I instinctively grabbed it and 
tossed it into my inventory before it could do anything. 

I scrambled to my feet, fist forming. 

The Chris/Maggie creature wasn’t dead. The rock creature had a strange 
status over their head. Petrified. There was a sixty second timer, counting 
down. 

“What the shit?” I said. “What the flying fucking fuck?” 

Katia came jogging up as Donut burst from the saferoom. I could see 
Mordecai down the street, also approaching. We all surrounded her. Him. 
Chris. Whatever he was. Multiple people from town came to surround the 
body. Several of the changelings reached down to touch the rock creature. 
One of the young changelings approached, but one of the older ones held 
the child back. 

“T got it in my box,” Katia said, indicating her crossbow. She was out of 
breath. “A set of ten bolts of Petrify Rock Class.” 


“Goddamnit,” I said, looking down at the prone form of the rock 
creature. Its eyes still moved back and forth. She was conscious, but she 
couldn’t move. What choice did we have? “We’re going to have to kill her.” 

“Her?” Katia asked. 

“Tt’s Maggie. Frank’s wife. The one that’s been hunting us since the first 
floor.” 

Donut hissed. “Maggie My! The vile killer?” She jumped to the rock 
creature’s chest, but she howled at the heat and jumped over. “Where’s 
Chris?” she yelled at the prone form. “What did you do to Chris?” 

Katia looked perplexed. “Why would they give me bolts to just petrify 
her instead of kill her then? Mordecai says these are more expensive than 
just the regular ones.” 

“We can have Mongo kill her,’ Donut said, jumping to my shoulder. 
“That way we don’t get skulls.” 

“Wait,” Juice Box said, brushing herself off. I realized I’d tossed her 
aside when I’d dived for the ball thing. “You don’t want to hurt him.” 

Imani: Stop! Stop! I just got a message from Chris! 

Carl: It’s not him. 

Imani: No. It is! He’s petrified. He’s going to lose consciousness 
again when his body wakes up. He’s being controlled! 

The timer was at thirty seconds. 

“Boy, you do not know how to take a hint,” Juice Box said. She poked 
at the prone creature with her foot. “Next time PII just spit it out. You’re 
friends with the rock guy, right?” 

“I’m friends with a guy named Chris,” I said. “Is this really him?” 

“He’s right there. Don’t kill him. There’s also someone else in there. An 
Infiltrator. That’s who you need to kill.” 

“What the hell is an Infiltrator?” I asked just as Mordecai approached. 

“Oh, fuck,” Mordecai said. 

The timer was at ten seconds. 

“Shoot him again,” Mordecai said. Katia complied, firing a bolt right 
into his chest. The magical bolt whiffed away in a puff of smoke a moment 
later, and the 60-second timer reset. “We got a problem.” 


Mordecai leaned down to examine the igneous. “I’ve told you about these 
guys before. There are multiple types of brain worms. The intellect hunters 
are the most common, but they can only take over corpses, and the bodies 
start to rot. The Valtay are similar, but they secrete a liquid that keeps the 
bodies alive. Their distant cousins are a race called the Scree, but they’re 
better known by a different name. The Infiltrators. They are parasites, and 
they take full control of bodies. Living bodies. A person is infected, and it 
takes a few days for the annexation to complete. They don’t even know they 
have the parasite. After a few days, the worm completely takes over. Once 
the switch occurs, the parasite gains power, and the host is locked out of 
their own body. The worm controls them. The host can do nothing but 
watch as they are moved like a puppet.” 

“Holy fucking shit,” I said, looking down at Chris. “So he’s been awake 
this whole time, watching all of this happen, but he’s completely 
powerless?” 

“That’s right. She’s in his brain. His body is her armor.” 

“Okay,” I said. “So how do we get her out of him?” 

Mordecai shook his head sadly. “Without killing him? We don’t. It’s 
next to impossible. She can’t even leave until he’s dead. There’s only one 
thing I can think of. An antiparasitic that will kill her, but I won’t have the 
materials until we hit the next floor.” 

I felt a deep chill rush over me. Katia shot him again, using her third of 
ten bolts. We’d only be able to keep him petrified for seven more minutes. 
“There’s gotta be something we can do now.” 

Everything suddenly made sense. Well, no, that wasn’t true. None of 
this shit made sense. But I now knew what happened. Maggie had chosen 
the Infiltrator race and had somehow managed to get herself into Chris. 
She’d been in him ever since the end of the third floor, and once she’d fully 
taken over, she’d separated out from the party and started hunting me. 

Frank had said he didn’t even know what race or class she’d taken. 
She’d finally caught up with him at the Desperado Club, possibly looking 
for the ring he’d given me. She’d ended up killing him. Her own husband. 

People who die in the collapse aren’ really dead. 

I thought about the implications of that. There were hints of it in the 
cookbook, but nothing definitive. Was it true? That was a conversation for 
Mordecai. I didn’t have the luxury of thinking about it now. 


Elle: Imani is refusing to send you this message, so I will. It is from 
Chris, and I am copying and pasting his exact words. I’m sorry guys. 
“Carl, Donut. Please. Kill me. It’s okay. I give you permission. You’ll be 
helping me.” 

“Hey Chris, go fuck yourself,” I said. “We’re going to figure this out.” 
Then I told Elle what I said. 

Elle: I told him the same thing. But if we can’t figure out a solution, 
I don’t think you have a choice. If it was me stuck in there, Pd want 
you to pull the plug, too. 

“Can we take him into the saferoom?” I asked. “Would that cure him?” 

“No,” Mordecai said. “Not once she’s taken full control. The saferoom 
won’t help. We can’t tie him up and leave him there. It won’t let us.” 

“Then we’ll tie him up and leave him out here,” I said. “If we can keep 
him contained until the next floor, maybe you can make that potion.” 

Mordecai shook his head. “Sorry, kid. That’s not going to work. 
What’re you going to do? Pick him up and throw him over your shoulder 
while you go down the stairs? You’re in different parties, and you’ll be 
separated once you hit the next floor anyway. And even if he’s tied up, he 
has spells he can still cast.” 

This was an impossible situation. I turned to Juice Box who was 
standing back, watching with her arms crossed. “You touched him. Can you 
turn into one of those worms? Go in there and take out the one in his head?” 

“No,” she said. “They are too small. And I wouldn’t do it even if I 
could. That’s a pretty fucked-up thing to ask.” 

Katia shot him again. Six to go. 

Elle: He says, “This woman is overwhelmed with anger and despair, 
and every moment I share with her is worse than the last. You took the 
orb from her, but she can still hurt you. 

“What’s the orb?” Donut asked. 

“I have it,” I said. I quickly examined the object in my inventory. I was 
momentarily confused by the name. It hadn’t listed itself as an explosive. 
But then I read the description. 

Celestial Grenade 

These little balls of fun were developed by the nuns of Enyo during 
the first enlightenment, back when the gods had to compete for 
worshippers. The nuns would descend upon a village and proselytize to 
the people about why their goddess was the best. If the villagers didn’t 


immediately fall to their knees in veneration, the nuns would be forced 
to invoke a more aggressive campaign. 

A nun would drop a celestial grenade, which would summon Enyo 
directly into town for a period of sixty seconds. That was usually 
enough to change the minds of the survivors. 

Celestial grenades grant the following effects: 

If the wielder of the grenade has pledged themselves to a specific 
deity, this grenade will summon their god for sixty seconds. In addition, 
the wielder will receive a 60-second Divine Intervention aura. 

If the wielder does not worship a deity, this grenade will summon a 
random god. They will not receive the Divine Intervention buff. 

Why was Maggie trying to summon a god? Just to kill me? That seemed 
a tad overkill. I remembered what she’d started to say. It sounded like she’d 
made some sort of deal. The fact Katia had received a countermeasure from 
Princess Formidable meant the grenade could’ve come only from one place. 
The Skull Empire. 

“Chris, does Maggie worship Grull?” 

While we waited for an answer to filter through Imani and Elle—which 
was the only way we could talk—I examined the grenade in my inventory 
to make sure the pin hadn’t yet been yanked free. It hadn’t. I pulled it out 
and tossed it to Mordecai, whose eyes grew huge when he saw it. 

“These are very expensive and rare,” he said. “You see ‘em on the ninth 
floor a lot, especially near the end. Someone paid a pretty penny to get this 
in her hands. This is just over the top. It’s like trying to kill a bug with a 
kinetic strike.” 

“That’s what I was thinking!” 

“You humiliated Prince Maestro and his family over and over,” Katia 
said. “They have to kill you to save face. If you die before they get a chance 
to do it, it’s probably just as bad.” 

“Well they’re terrible at it,’ Donut said. “I mean, really. If they can’t 
even manage to kill one human who doesn’t wear pants, how can anyone 
expect them to control an intergalactic empire? No offense, Carl.” 

I was about to tell Donut to shut the fuck up when Chris’s answer 
finally came in. 

Elle: He started talking, but he got cut off. It now says his 
messaging privileges have been suspended for thirty minutes. He says, 
“Irs not Grull. She worships another god called Algos. That’s who the 


grenade would’ve summoned. Maggie’s first sponsor is Prince Maestro 
and her second is Crown Prince Stalwart, his brother. I have the same 
two sponsors. They gave her a scroll that let her choose a god to 
worship. I received a box with a picture on it of Algos, and that’s how 
she knew who to pick. She got the grenade when we hit this floor. We 
got approached by this weird guy in a saferoom, and he told us...” That 
was the whole message. 

“Jesus,” I said as Katia shot him again. “Maggie has double sponsors, 
and all four of them are the Skull Empire.” 

I quickly related the message to Mordecai via chat. 

Mordecai: This doesn’t sound official to me. Someone probably 
bribed someone to allow Maggie a one-on-one in a saferoom. It 
happens, but don’t talk about it out loud. Pm thinking Maggie’s race 
can’t worship Grull, so they had to find another god to do their dirty 
work. Plus they likely didn’t want to rely on Prince Maestro again. 
He’d probably just screw it up and further embarrass the family. Algos 
is the god of pain. He would kill everyone in town in seconds. He’s a 
good god to choose if you want your target to suffer. 

“That Maestro guy is letting you live rent free in his head,” Donut said. 
“Tt’s quite pitiful. I’m starting to think he really is in love with you.” 

“His sister is spending a lot of money to stop him,” Katia added, 
looking down at the prone form of Chris. 

“I never liked my brother, either,” Donut said. “He always thought he 
was better than the rest of us.” 

“Your brother sold for over ten thousand dollars,” I said. 

Donut made a spitting noise. “I don’t remember seeing him win any 
championships.” 

Katia shot Chris once again. We were almost out of time. The enormity 
of our problem was getting heavier on my shoulders by the moment. I felt 
the desperation rising. “I’m going to flip him over, break open the back of 
his head, and dig Maggie out with my bare hand.” 

“Carl,” Katia said, sounding alarmed. “That’s not going to work. You’|l 
kill him.” 

“You’re not getting in there anyway,” Mordecai said. “His head is solid 
rock. The parasite is in his brain. Not riding it like a backpack.” 

“Goddamnit. Why am I the only one trying to come up with a solution? 
What the hell are we going to do?” I said. 


But I knew. We all knew. And that weight was getting heavier by the 
moment. 

You cant save them all. 

Carl: Imani, I’m sorry. 

She didn’t answer, which made me feel even worse. I put my hand on 
his rocky shoulder. It was hot, but not unbearable. 

“Hey, Chris. I know you can’t respond anymore, but your brother 
wanted me to tell you that he loved you, and he regretted not telling you 
that. He died protecting his friends. I’m sorry I couldn’t help you.” 

“Carl,” Katia said, putting her own hand on my shoulder. “You don’t 
have a skull yet. I do. Let me do it.” 

“No,” I said, forming my fist. “Everyone get back.” 

“Be careful,” Mordecai said. “Once he dies, the infiltrator will still be 
alive. She’ll burrow out of his head. She’Il try to get into someone else.” 

“Not the way I’m going to kill him,” I said. 

The small group all took several steps back. It was just me and Donut 
standing over the prone form of Chris. We had twenty seconds left. 

“Carl?” Donut asked from my shoulder. 

“What?” 

“Don’t be mad at me.” 

A large hole opened up in the street, revealing a shimmering force field 
that separated this quadrant from the next. The form of Chris plummeted 
through the hole and disappeared, landing loudly into the dark chamber 
below. There was a splash. 

I only fell about a foot, landing on the shimmering air. I stood upon the 
forcefield like it was glass, looking down upon it with surprise. 

“You best step out of the hole, or your feet will get chopped off when I 
turn the spell off,” Donut said. “Daddy wouldn’t like that very much.” 


“Goddamnit, Donut. What the fuck?” 

“You’re not a killer, Carl,” Donut said as the spell snapped off. “Not a 
person killer, at least. You get all weird about killing NPCs. How do you 
think it’s going to affect you to kill one of your friends? I’m not going to let 
it happen. I can’t have you being all mopey.” 


“He was asking for our help, Donut. Now she’s gotten away and Chris 
is still... Goddamnit, you shouldn’t have done that. That was a mistake.” 

“Look at the map. He’s not getting out of that room. And if they do get 
out, we’ll be prepared for them. Katia has the find crawler skill. She’ll see 
them sneaking up on us. Maybe.” 

I took a deep, angry breath. I was angry with Donut, but I was also 
angry with myself for being so desperately relieved at what she’d done. 

I looked at the map for the subterranean level. Sure enough, there was a 
honeycomb system of rooms directly below the streets. The entrance to the 
catacomb wasn’t a level plane, but it went up and down in a toothed pattern. 
Chris and Maggie were stuck in a bubble. They had solid rock all around 
them. They could go back up through the street. Or they could go down, 
though that looked like another sealed off chamber. They’d have to break 
through two walls to get to the closest walkway—a walkway that was likely 
filled with water. 

“Mordecai, can he get out of there with his race abilities?” 

“Maybe,” he said, shaking his head. “He can excrete lava, but it cools 
rapidly. It’s not effective against rock. There are spells like Donut’s Hole 
and dozens of others that help people make their way through rock. I don’t 
know what either of them have. He’ll be able to use both of their abilities 
and spells. He might be able to smash through with time. It sounded like 
there was water in there. He can breathe underwater, but if the chamber 
fills, it’ll hinder their progress.” 

“Wait, really?” I said. “He can breathe underwater?” 

“Yes. Both of them can, actually. Infiltrators are aquatic like most brain 
parasites. An igneous can survive in most environments. They’re very 
hardy.” 

“If there’s water, there’s steam,” Katia said. “He might be able to blow 
his way out.” 

“That doesn’t sound very safe,” I said. 

“Tf that crazy lady is suicidal, then maybe it won’t matter,” she replied. 

I felt relief at the idea, of Maggie somehow killing them both. Then I 
felt shame for feeling that way. 

While we talked, Donut was giving a running commentary in the chat to 
Elle and Imani. 

Imani: Thank you, Donut. Once you defeat all four castles, you can 
go back, incapacitate them again, bring them through the portal, and 


then your game guide can make a potion to save Chris. 

I took a deep breath. That was... a very dangerous idea. It was a dumb 
idea. Katia only had three of the paralyze bolts left, which meant we’d have 
three minutes to get them to the stairwell. That simply wasn’t going to 
happen. Maggie had just tried to unleash the god of pain on me. She was 
too dangerous to let free. We were being used like pawns in a royal pissing 
match between a brother and sister, who in turn were being exploited by the 
whole system while the entire universe laughed their asses off at us all. 

Yes, being in the spotlight was good. But we needed to break ourselves 
free from this Skull Empire bullshit. It would catch up to us sooner rather 
than later. 

“Mordecai,” I said. “We have to find a way to separate him from the 
worm before the floor ends. Go to the market and see if you can find those 
potion supplies now. Ill put the word out and see if anybody has what we 
need.” 

I went into my interface. I found the little needle that indicated the 
current stream watchers. I cycled through a few views and settled on one 
that didn’t show actual numbers, but it ticked the needle up when more than 
average were watching. I placed it in the corner right above my airspeed 
and elevation tickers. I had another thought. 

Carl: Also, Mordecai. I was wrong before about something. I want 
you to take some money and buy Donut that environmental upgrade. 
The one that shows us a running commentary of our social media 
comments. 

Donut: YAY! 

Mordecai: You know it’s heavily moderated by the AI, right? 

Carl: That’s okay. The more information, the better. 

I pointed to Juice Box. “You,” I said. “Let’s sit down right now and talk. 
But we gotta make it quick. We’re going to take out that last castle once it 
gets dark.” 

“We still need to sleep, Carl,” Donut said. 

“We can sleep when we’re dead.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[25 .J 


“So,” I saip To JUICE Box. “HENRIK IS YOUR BROTHER?” 

She nodded. “He’s what we call a Principal. People say they’re a cult, 
obsessed with cataloging all known species. But that’s not true. They’re 
looking for just one. And they think they’ ve found it.” 

Donut: LONELY_YETI_15 SAYS I HAVE THE PRETTIEST FUR 
PATTERN SHE HAS EVER SEEN. SHE ALSO SAYS SHE’S 
GETTING A TATTOO OF ME ON HER LOWER THORAX. 

Carl: You’re supposed to be helping Katia sew. 

Donut: I DON’T HAVE THUMBS, CARL. 

I shook my head and returned my attention to Juice Box. She remained 
in her human form, but she’d made herself bald for some reason. We sat in 
the Spit and Swallow, which was filled with camels taking a quick breather 
from their frantic work to repair the town before the next impending sand 
storm. 

“So this Quetzalcoatlus creature is what they’re looking for?” I asked. 

“That’s what I’m getting at, yes. Problem is she’s a ghost.” 

“And that’s why you took over the guards in charge of the gnome 
hostage. You needed to get to Wynne. You needed to get to him because he 
had the ability to make her temporarily corporeal, which would allow your 
brother to touch her and gain the ability to turn into her.” 

“Yes.” She paused, staring off as a group of grim-faced dromedarians 
got up and left, on their way back to work. “I didn’t want any part of it. I 
thought it was disrespectful after they took us in. Still, I would have helped 
him sooner had I know the Hunting Grounds were accessible, that this was 


something that could actually be accomplished. Had I helped, perhaps we 
would have avoided all of this.” 

“Your brother was torturing the gnome,” I said. “Something tells me 
you wouldn’t have been on board with that.” She didn’t answer, so I 
continued. “But the gnome is dead, and Quetzalcoatlus is still a ghost. 
They’ve gone into the maze anyway. What do you think they’re going to 
do?” 

“I don’t know,” she said. “Henrik is desperate.” 

“And why are they trying to find her? What’s so special about her?” 

Juice Box sighed. “She is, or was, a type of creature that doesn’t 
normally live in these lands. She has a special ability to cast a spell. She can 
alter plants. Like her, my people aren’t from this place. Our bodies have 
adapted, but not fully. With each generation, defects appear. It is happening 
more and more.” 

I thought of that changeling girl, Ruby. The one with the missing arms 
and the sunken-in head. 

“Compression sickness,” I said. 

“Yes,” Juice Box replied. “One out of every four births is now sick. The 
ones born with it are sterile. My brother believes if he can obtain the spell, 
he can create a food source that will give us the necessary vitamins that will 
stave off future birth defects.” 

“What about the Gate of the Feral gods? Before, you said it was a 
myth.” 

She waved her hand and then took a long drink. She reminded me of 
Elle with the amount of alcohol she consumed. “I lied. It is no myth, but it 
is dangerous. Using it was always the backup plan, but it was even more 
desperate of an idea than the plan to give flesh to Quetzalcoatlus. Plus, even 
my brother didn’t want to resort to using it. He is not that cruel.” 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

“The artifact has three parts. My brother has one piece, which he stole 
from the dromedarians. The gnomish Commandant has the second, and the 
third is on the surface in the hands of the mad mage. Two pocket watches 
and a winding box. When they’re put together, the gate can be opened.” 

I had already guessed most of this, but I still didn’t know the most 
important part. “And what can they do with the gate?” 

“Tt’s simple, really. One can open a gate from one place to the next. But 
it comes with a cost. It rips a hole into the depths of the Nothing. So when 


the gate finally closes, an ancient, feral god comes through into the world.” 

“A feral god? Which side does it come through? The side where the 
gate is opened or the side where the gateway leads?” 

“The opening side. Which is why even my brother doesn’t wish to use 
it. We can go home, but it would bring devastation to this world.” 

“T don’t even know what a feral god is,” I said. 

Juice Box shivered. “They are the gods from before. The immortal 
beasts who roamed the heavens before the pantheon banished them into the 
Nothing and created the world. Their banishment has driven them mad.” 

There was a moment there, when the air suddenly felt electric. I now 
knew exactly what that feeling meant, what was about to happen. 

New Quest. The Gate of the Feral Gods. 

Henrik the Changeling. Commandant Kane. The Mad Dune Mage. 
They all have pieces of the artifact. Take it from them. Collect all three. 
Put them together. 

What happens next is pretty damn neat. 

Reward: Oh boy-oh-boy. 

Oh boy-oh-boy. 


The sandstorm came, and we hunkered down in the personal space. Despite 
the valiant efforts of the townsfolk to prepare the city for the storm, their 
efforts weren’t enough. The moment the winds came, the not-yet-finished 
shield ripped away, forcing everyone inside. The town would be buried in 
sand by the time the storm was done. 

The moment the shield failed, we all received a quest to “save” the town 
by procuring a bunch of deflated balloons that they could use as a shelter. It 
was a regular, bronze quest that I shoved off on Louis and Firas and 
Langley, who’d finished searching the ruins of the other town. They could 
use the experience. 

They had spent the remainder of the day grinding and picking up loot. 
There was no sign of any surviving bactrians except one in a single 
saferoom bar. The group had also managed to secure an intact, gnomish 
Drop Bear airplane. The pilot was nowhere to be found. They dragged the 
machine to the edge of the other town and covered it with a tarp. 


Down on the land quadrant, Gwen’s team had finally managed to breach 
all the walls, but now they faced the main entrance to the castle, which was 
magically locked. They were currently trying to figure out how to get in. 
The mage still hadn’t shown himself. 

The tomb raiders were stuck in saferooms. The entire catacomb was 
now filled with water. They had dozens of water scrolls, but that wasn’t 
enough. They were paralyzed for now. 

Chris/Maggie remained entombed. Donut could see their dot on the map 
as long as she stood nearby. The room was half-filled with water and was 
pitch black, which had to be awful. We set Mordecai to work. He needed 
something called vile dill for his potion. He hadn’t found it yet. He was 
seeking an alternative using the store interface and by talking to folks at the 
Desperado Club. 

I couldn’t stop thinking about how horrible this had to be for Chris. 
Being helpless was one thing, but what he was currently enduring was just 
too much. The more I thought about it, the more I regretted not putting him 
out of his misery. 

I understood what Donut had done. Hell, if I had thought of it, I 
would’ve done the same thing. Still, it felt like the wrong decision. It was 
the easy way out, and in this place, the easy way usually came with dire 
consequences. 

But I had push all of that out of my mind and focus at the task at hand: 
capturing the gnomish throne room. 

Here’s what we knew. After we’d crashed the Wasteland, all that 
remained was a single building held aloft by an enormous, magical balloon. 
The building was a house, nothing more. There were no obvious defenses. 
The entire gnomish airforce was now grounded. It appeared there were only 
two living creatures up there. Commandant Kane and his daughter. The kid 
was about ten years old. That was it. 

Once the sandstorm ended, we had two hours before it got dark. All 
around, camels emerged and started digging the town free. I pulled the 
farseer and searched until I found the small house, which has settled high 
above. It floated all the way to the top of the bubble, like a children’s 
balloon that had gotten away from a kid and was now wedged in a high 
ceiling. 

“We can still try shooting it down,” Katia said, standing by my side. 


“We could,” I agreed. “It’s probably the easier way to do it. But I want 
to get that pocket watch. And if it falls now, I’m afraid it’ll land outside the 
bowl. Then what would we do?” 

“You also don’t want to hurt that kid,” Katia said. “I think I know you 
well enough by now.” 

I nodded. “Maybe you’re right.” 

“They do that on purpose, you know. It’s no accident they put a child up 
there.” 

“Yeah,” I agreed. “But they should also know by now my stance on 
killing NPCs. I don’t want to do it, but I think they’re better off dead 
anyway. So I won’t hesitate if my hand is forced. Even if it’s a kid.” 

We stood side by side for several silent moments. 

“Did you ever want children?” Katia finally asked. 

I turned to look at the woman, surprised at the question. I knew she’d 
had some painful issues with this subject, but I didn’t know the details. 

“No,” I said. “I wouldn’t be a good dad. Bea told me she thought she 
was pregnant like ten times. She never was. The first few times, when I 
thought she really was, I was goddamned terrified.” 

“I... I have trouble seeing you with that woman.” She shook her head. 
“Anyway, I can’t have children.” She paused, looking down at herself. 
“When I was human, I mean. I was going to adopt. You can do that in 
Iceland when you’re single. I got pre-approval. I was on the list. That’s all I 
ever wanted. Something happened, and I got disqualified. It’s not important. 
But I’m glad now. I keep thinking about that Maggie woman, and how 
twisted she’s become. It’s because she’s a mother. Losing everything can do 
that to you. I can’t help but wonder how different things would be for me if 
I had a child. I’m glad now I don’t.” 

The way she said it, I knew she wasn’t being truthful. It wasn’t 
something I would ever understand, the need to have children. I said 
nothing. 

“Anyway,” Katia continued. “I still think we should just blow it out of 
the sky.” 

“You’re just mad you’re not going to get the chance to go skydiving 
again,” I said, putting the telescope away. 

“Usually, I get irritated when you want to leave me behind on your little 
schemes,” Katia said. “I’m pretty happy to sit this one out.” 

I patted her on the shoulder. 


It was time to go. Behind me, Donut emerged from the bar, followed by 
Mongo and another robot Donut. The toy company had sent her three more, 
two of which had been promptly destroyed by Mongo. This fourth one was 
supposedly more durable. It’d survived one attack, but the head was now 
scarred from Mongo teeth. 

“Come on, Donut,” I said. “Let’s roll.” 

The robot version jumped onto my shoulder. This one was significantly 
heavier than the last. It turned its head toward me. “There sure were a lot of 
babies in there, Carl,” the toy said. “I wonder how long they will continue 
to cry in the dark.” 

“Get the hell off of me.” I pushed it from my shoulder, and it landed on 
its back with a crunch. Mongo was on it in a second, grabbing it by the 
neck and shaking. The head ripped, and a countdown timer appeared over 
the toy. 

“Goddamnit,” I said. “Everyone get back.” 

We all scrambled away. The toy exploded in a shower of sparks and 
smoke. It wasn’t a big explosion, but it would’ve hurt if we’d been closer. It 
was enough to leave a scorch mark all over the front of the Spit and 
Swallow. 

“Yeah, that’s safe,” I said as I collected the pieces. The controller core 
of the robot was a round, marble-sized metal ball. Like the last few times, 
the core itself had exploded, making it look a metallic piece of popped 
popcorn. “I can’t tell if these guys are a toy company or a weapons 
company. Either way, they’re terrible at it.” 

Mongo screeched in agreement. 

The real Donut jumped to my shoulder and sat with a harrumph. 

“They said this version was indestructible,” she said sadly. “Do you 
think the Kardashians had to deal with defective merch? This is most 
disappointing.” 

“I don’t think the toy people know what they’re doing,” I said. 

Loita: Carl, you know perfectly well that the real version of these 
toys can take much more stress. Your boosted strength is what’s 
causing the problem. The toy is meant to be played with outside of an 
enhancement zone by children, not survive within a dungeon 
environment. 

Carl: Hello, Loita. You should tell Donut’s sponsors that parents 
will shy away from toys that could potentially melt their child’s face off. 


Donut: ALSO, I DON’T SAY CREEPY STUFF LIKE THE DOLL 
DOES. IT’S REALLY WEIRD. 

Zev: The audience loves the strange vibe of the doll, but I tend to 
agree with the crawler. It does not sound like her. We put that in the 
notes, but Veriluxx hasn’t changed it. 

On my shoulder, Donut tensed up upon realizing Zev was a part of the 
conversation. I knew she was still worried about the kua-tin’s well-being. 

Donut: HI ZEV! 

Carl: Nobody is going to care about the toy’s voice if it keeps 
randomly exploding. 

Donut: HE IS RIGHT. IT IS NOT A CARL DOLL. 

Loita: After we realized you were going to fiddle with the toy, we 
started requiring the sponsor to make the doll self-destruct if it is 
sufficiently broken. We don’t want you unfairly getting your hands on 
the important interior parts. The real version won’t have that feature. 

Carl: So you’re the ones screwing the sponsor over? I bet they’re 
not too happy then. I’m no marketing expert, but I can’t imagine this 
thing is going to do well with how it’s being presented. 

Zev: You are not wrong, crawler. There are memes. 

Loita: That is not of your concern. You will be going on their 
program soon. They assure us that before that happens, you will 
receive a proper prototype. 

Donut: TELL THEM I NEED TO HAVE THE ABILITY TO 
CHANGE THE ROBOT’S NAME. CARL CALLS IT “ROBOT 
DONUT” AND THAT JUST WON’T DO. I HAVEN’T DECIDED ON 
CHARLIE OR IVY. WHAT DO YOU THINK, ZEV? 

Zev: It’s inconsequential, crawler. 

Donut’s claws dug so heavily into the side of my neck, I winced with 
the pain. Her entire body was rigid. I reached up to pet her. 

Loita: Very well. We are done here. Try not to break the next one. 

Zev: If you must choose a name, I would go with Ivy. 

Donut let out a very slight gasp. 

Donut: I THINK YOU’RE RIGHT. BYE ZEV! 

Donut did an excited little hop on my shoulder. “Okay, Carl,” she said. 
“Let’s go take out that castle in the sky.” 


The gnomish Drop Bear used actual gasoline for fuel. The abandoned 
biplane’s tank was almost dry. I still had plenty of the fuel in my inventory, 
all in metal canisters. 

I examined the vehicle as I filled the tank. I needed the plane as light as 
possible, so I was only going to fill it up a quarter of the way. It didn’t have 
any bombs left under the wings, which would help with the weight. The 
plane did not look real, like it was something a drunk dude had built in his 
backyard out of scrap metal. Not something that was supposed to actually 
fly. I took a deep breath thinking about what we were about to do. 

The airplane featured a frothing, rabid koala bear thing painted on the 
nose. There were also words in Syndicate standard stenciled onto the nose 
above the artwork. I wiped the dust off to reveal the plane’s name. 

“Wonderful,” I muttered. 

The plane’s name was Death Trap. It had four bombs painted after the 
tag. I took a can of spray paint and covered it up. I then wrote Nightmare II 
on the side. Donut objected, but only half-heartedly. She’d been oddly 
distracted since our discussion with Loita. 

The plane was half buried in the sand when we arrived. Thankfully, 
Langley had been smart enough to have it covered with a tarp before the 
storm. Those other guys all had gone off in search of downed balloons. 
They needed to collect five of the things to finish the “save Hump Town” 
quest. There were plenty scattered about the bowl. They had to fight off 
both gnomes and giant lizards, but at this point, the group of crawlers had 
enough experience with both that they could handle themselves. They were 
now on their way back to Hump Town to meet up with Katia. 

After we finished cleaning the thing off, I sat in the pilot seat and Donut 
took to the rear-facing gunner’s chair. I had to rip both of the arm rests off 
just to fit in the thing. As I settled in, Donut put her paws up on the large 
gun and started making shooting noises. There was no runway here, and we 
wouldn’t be able to take off. Not in the traditional sense. 

I started the engine to make sure it worked. Both engines spun right up. 
I flipped the switch and turned them off. I had no idea how to fly the thing, 
but the controls were similar to all the flight sims I’d played a dozen times. 
And they were simplistic compared to the original Nightmare’s controls. 
There were five gauges, two throttle switches that could be controlled 
individually or in tandem, rudder pedals, and a stick. That was it. 


Thankfully I only needed to “fly” the thing for a few minutes. And I didn’t 
need to worry about landing or taking off. 

“Ready for this?” I asked. The virtual sun had already fallen below the 
horizon, and darkness spread across the bowl like an inky stain. High 
above, our target glowed like a star. 

“Let’s do it,” Donut said. 

The emergency recovery balloon was deployed using a handle to the 
right of the too-small cockpit chair. The balloons did nothing but elevate the 
disabled vehicle to the top of the bubble. 

I pulled the lever, yanking on it like a car’s emergency brake. The twin 
balloons burst upward, hissing as they filled with... well I didn’t know what 
they were filling with. It was some sort of chemical reaction instead of a 
conventional balloon. 

The whole plane jerked, tail first. We started to rise into the air. Slowly 
at first, but soon we were moving faster and faster. I watched the needle 
indicating our altitude as we rapidly rose into the air. 

“Carl, Carl, there are still bullets left in the gun!” Donut suddenly 
exclaimed. “I can shoot stuff!” 

“Don’t you dare,” I called over my shoulder as we rocketed upward. We 
climbed straight up, caught a breeze and continued to rise at an angle, 
moving toward the very center of the bubble. I kept a wary eye out for the 
large birds that sometimes patrolled the skies. 

I didn’t see any enemies. Before the storm, there had been a handful of 
balloons up against the ceiling, but they’d all disappeared. I knew a few had 
simply fallen, crashing against the desert like meteors. Some had 
plummeted onto the land quadrant. Some in the ocean. 

All that was left was the target. 

It took us less time than I expected to reach the top of the bubble. We hit 
the ceiling with a bump, and suddenly we weren’t rising any more. I 
checked the altitude, and we were just about five kilometers above the 
bowl, which was already pretty high off the bubble’s sea level. This was 
much higher than we’d been last time. I didn’t notice any change in 
pressure or difference in oxygen levels. I pulled up my health pie chart 
menu, and it didn’t show any sort of oxygen deprivation. That was good. 

I formed my xistera, loaded it with a thumper, and I tossed it upward, 
just to see what would happen. Even this close, I still couldn’t tell if the 


bubble’s wall was transparent or just a screen. The metal ball clanked 
loudly against the glass-like bubble wall before falling away. 

Donut peered over the edge and watched the ball disappear into the 
night. 

“Really, Carl,” she said. “That’s going to land on somebody’s head.” 

I turned until I could see the distant light, about a half of a mile away, 
also pressed against the ceiling of the bubble. Damn, I thought. We were 
further away than I’d hoped. 

“God, I hope this works,” I said. “It’s about to get loud.” I reached 
down and flipped the two switches to turn on the plane’s engines. “Hold 
on!” 

I pushed the dual throttle switch and grasped the stick. I balanced my 
feet on the two rudder pedals and held the stick steady. The plane whined 
and jerked forward, pulling the balloons along the ceiling. I held my breath 
as we started to turn. Because we were still attached to the emergency 
balloons, I wasn’t really “flying” the plane. It was more like using training 
wheels on a bicycle and then pushing ourselves toward our destination by 
pumping the pedals just a few times. 

“Shit,” I mumbled as we turned too much. I eased the stick in the other 
direction. I pushed the right rudder pedal, and we eventually lined up with 
the house. I eased up the throttle and we started skittering along the top of 
the bubble toward the flying house. I cut the power and let our momentum 
take us in. 

“Get ready,” I called to Donut. 

The house loomed. A massive, glowing balloon kept the home aloft. 
The balloon was huge, more than four times the size of the regular hot-air 
balloons used by the other flying machines. It glowed with magic and shone 
like a beacon, leading us in like moths to a flame. 

The “castle” itself was nothing more than a square hunk of land with a 
two-story home sitting upon it. The house looked like any regular house one 
might find in a suburban neighborhood. I realized with surprise, that was 
exactly what it was. It had a double garage, a porch, and even a little garden 
out front, though half of it was gone. The building was painted a dull beige 
and made of aluminum siding. There was even a basketball hoop attached 
above the garage. 

Still, the house hadn’t survived the crashing of the Wasteland unscathed. 
The top floor windows were broken out. and part of the chimney had fallen 


in on itself. The rain gutters hung loosely off edge of the roof. Christmas 
lights clung to the gutters, blinking. 

“Do you think they heard us coming?” Donut asked. 

“Probably,” I said. “So be careful. Do you see them?” 

“No,” she said. “I see the stairwell though. It’s on the second floor of 
the house.” 

The magical balloon was attached to the house with a massive net. The 
airplane eased in like a boat against a dock, coming to a stop against the 
edge of the colossal balloon. We were a good forty feet above the top of the 
house. 

“Tm going in,” Donut said. She jumped from her back seat to the net of 
the balloon. 

I held my breath, worried the magical protection would hurt Donut. 
Mordecai said she’d be able to touch it, and he was thankfully correct. I 
climbed up out of my seat, balanced on the nose, using the top wing to 
steady myself. I jumped over to the balloon, also clinging onto the net. 
Donut dropped to my shoulder. 

“You’re not scared of heights, are you Carl?” Donut asked, looking 
down. She had a death grip on my shoulder. 

“No,” I said as I started to scale my way down the net. The Nightmare IT 
hung directly over my head, bobbing in the air. Once the escape balloon of 
the airplane touched the giant balloon, it also started glowing, like the 
balloon-protecting magic was contagious. 

“Are you sure? It’s really far,” Donut said. “Look, we can see the lights 
on the ground level. I think that’s the mage castle. It’s really far down 
there.” 

“We already fell once. There’s lots of shit that scares me, Donut. Height 
isn’t one of them.” 

“Well it should scare you, Carl. This is terrifying.” 

“Don’t look down.” 

“Where else am I going to look, Carl?” 

“You didn’t seem afraid earlier when we were in the other hot air 
balloon.” 

“That was before we fell out of the sky. I would like to avoid doing that 
again.” 

We quickly descended. The net attached to the house at the four corners 
of the lot. I didn’t want to risk jumping to the roof and sliding off the edge, 


so I climbed all the way to the dirt lot and jumped down. 

The ground felt unsteady. It wasn’t the same as being on water, but it 
was an odd, stomach-lurching sensation. We took a few steps toward the 
house. I moved slowly, wary of a trap or ambush. 

“You don’t see anything?” I asked again. 

“Nothing.” 

They had to have heard us coming. We approached the porch. A 
cockeyed “Welcome” sign hung from the center of the dirty, white door. 
The sign was hand-painted in blue and silver paint and had a star at the 
bottom, indicating the previous owners had been Dallas Cowboys fans. The 
doormat had a picture of a pistol and said, “We don’t dial 911.” 

“I’m getting mixed signals,” said Donut. 

She released Mongo, who landed onto the porch with a screech. He 
looked around, eyes going wide when he realized the ground was moving. 
He turned and looked up at Donut and let out a worried squeak. 

Donut leaped from my shoulder to the back of Mongo and gave him a 
little pat on the top of the head. “So, are we just going to stand here, or are 
we breaking the door in?” 

I eyed the doorbell and contemplated just ringing it to see what would 
happen. Probably a bad idea, I decided. “Okay, we’ll send Mongo and the 
clockworks through the upper window, and we’ll breach in through the 
front door. We’ll meet at the stairwell, but tell Mongo not to...” 

I didn’t finish. The front door opened, and a young, female gnome stood 
there, gazing at us. 

“Hello,” she said. She wore an oversized Dallas Cowboys jersey as a 
dress. She had brown pigtails peeking out from under her red, conical hat. 
The front of the jersey was smeared with blood. 

“Have you come to kill my father? You’re a little late. He’s already 
dead. Do you want to come in? I’m making lemonade!” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 16 ] 


I QUICKLY EXAMINED THE SMALL GIRL’S PROPERTIES. HER DOT WAS WHITE 
on the map. 

Bonnie — Dirigible Gnome. Juvenile. Level 5. 

Little Bonnie only loves two things in this world. Her pet pig 
Sausage and getting what she wants. 

The only daughter of Commandant Kane, a case can be made that 
she’s the true leader of the Wasteland. It is said that when Sausage was 
captured and held as ransom by the Bactrian camels, the young woman 
threw such an epic temper tantrum that the only thing that calmed her 
was watching her father order the bombing of the neutral changeling 
settlement. 

That’s the rumor, at least. The truth is, nobody knows much about 
the shy child. As such, do not judge her too harshly. She is but a 
spoiled, rich kid. If she’s evil, she doesn’t know any better. If she’s not, 
it’s a tragedy that you’re probably gonna have to kill her. 

Life’s a bitch. 


Carl: She’s not a changeling is she? 

Donut: I DON’T THINK SO. HER BRAIN ISN’T HOTTER THAN 
IT SHOULD BE. 

Carl: Same plan. We’ll follow her inside, but as soon as we’re in, 
send Mongo and the clockwork dinos through the upper window. Tell 
them to be quiet. 


Donut: THEY DON’T KNOW HOW TO BE QUIET. 

I hesitantly followed the young gnome into the home. The power was 
on, and the home was well-lit, though the lights were constantly flickering. 

Even with the hat, the child was barely taller than Donut. The place 
stank like a mix of cigars and that lilac-scented, bargain deodorizer one 
would get at the dollar store. A line of framed photographs of smiling 
human children sat on the floor, propped up neatly against the wall. The 
portraits had once been hanging on the now-bare walls, but they’d fallen 
off. In fact, the entire interior of the home had clearly been upset by the 
recent tumult. I spied broken glass on the floor and bricks scattered about 
near the fireplace. A large flatscreen television lay on its side in the living 
room. 

Carl: Donut, you do the talking. 

“Pm setting up a lemonade stand,” the girl said as she walked toward 
the kitchen. I could see the large, magnet-covered refrigerator at the end of 
the hall. “I was going to open it up tomorrow. You guys can test it for me. 
My name is Bonnie!” 

I cringed at the loud crash that came from upstairs as Mongo and the 
two others jumped through the second-floor window. The girl turned and 
looked upward. “What’s that?” 

“Bonnie, what happened to your father?” Donut asked, trying to distract 
her. A line of blood ran from the kitchen area to the front door. The entire 
front of her oversized shirt was stained red, like she’d been lying in a 
puddle of blood. 

The child shrugged and turned back to the kitchen. I hesitantly 
followed. We passed the stairwell. Mongo and the automatons appeared at 
the top of the stairs, looking disappointed they hadn’t found anything to kill. 
Donut waved at them to stay put. Bonnie didn’t notice or acknowledge the 
dinosaurs. Instead, I followed her to the kitchen. A pitcher filled with 
yellow liquid sat upon the counter. A bag of sugar and several cut up 
lemons lay nearby. Next to the mess was a sign that appeared to be hand- 
painted in blood. It read “The Sausage Memorial Fund Lemonade Stand. 
One gold piece a cup.” 

And there, draped across the small kitchen table, was the bloody, dead 
body of a dirigible gnome. 

Lootable Corpse. Commandant Kane. Dirigible Gnome. Level 55. 
Ripped to shreds by Denise. 


I couldn’t tell what had happened to the gnome. He looked half eaten. 

Bonnie hummed a little song as she pulled herself onto a chair and then 
hopped up onto the counter. She poured a glass of lemonade. The pitcher 
was almost as big as she was, but she handled it easily. She pushed the glass 
across the counter and toward me. 

“Both of you, take a sip! Tell me what you think. But if you like it, you 
have to pay me a gold coin.” 

“Bonnie,” I asked, not taking the glass. “Who is Denise?” 

“Oh,” she said, looking up. I realized the kid’s eyes were completely 
dilated. She’s under a spell. “Is she back? She went out to get some food.” 

I looked around nervously. “Who is she?” I asked again. She didn’t 
answer. 

“Bonnie, who is Denise?” Donut asked. 

That little needle I’d just installed into my UI to indicate current streams 
was Starting to spike. 

“When Sausage got taken, my father kept getting me new pets to make 
me stop missing Sausage.” 

Sausage, I assumed, was the now-dead pig from the Bactrian settlement. 
I now knew if we’d gotten there first, we’d have been able to use the thing 
to get up here. 

“He tried the gerbils, but I didn’t like any. Plus they’re all mean. Then 
we tried other stuff, including ol’ Denise. She’s okay, I guess. But she’s no 
Sausage. Don’t tell her that, though. She gets jealous.” 

“Why did Denise kill your father?” Donut asked. 

“He, you know...” She pointed to the kitchen sink. There was nothing 
there. It was just a typical sink. 

“He what?” Donut asked. “Bonnie, we do not understand.” 

She ignored the question and pushed the glass closer to the edge of the 
counter. “My father gave me the recipe. It’s good. Try some.” 

I swallowed and examined the drink. 

Unknown Potion 

The kid says this is “Lemonade.” 

“Uh,” I said, taking a step toward the corpse. I needed to get close 
enough to loot him without it being too obvious. At the same time, I sent a 
note to Mordecai. “You don’t seem to be too upset your dad is dead.” 

An eclectic line of shotglasses sat on the counter. The kid poured some 
of the yellow potion into one that read “Remember the Alamo” and drank it 


down. There wasn’t any obvious effect. “It’s so good. Did I tell you I’m 
setting up a lemonade stand?” She lowered her head. “Sausage died. They 
promised they’d take care of him, but they didn’t. So we bombed them all. 
My dad said it’d make me feel better, but it didn’t.” 

The walls shook. The ground lurched. The pitcher of lemonade sloshed, 
and the other shotglasses fell to the floor. I stumbled at the sudden 
movement, and I fell toward the corpse. I accidentally stuck my hand right 
into the dead body of Commandant Kane. It felt as if I’d reached into a 
lukewarm bowl of pot roast. The loot menu popped up. 

5,030 gold pieces. 

Letter from the Glass Wizard. 

Mysterious Watch. 

I took all the items. Before I did anything else, I immediately examined 
the letter. It was short. 

Kane, 

Cease your hostilities immediately. Your bombs do not harm me, 
but they are ruining the structure of the temple, weakening its wall. 
Surely you do not want the whole thing to collapse? Even in your 
floating city, you must know the danger we all face if such a thing were 
to happen. 

I propose a truce. 

You stop the bombing, and I won’t end this world. 

I have the winding box. I know you have at least one of the watches. 
Perhaps both. It doesn’t matter anymore. I have cracked the box’s 
secret. I know how to open a portal, and I do not need the other two 
pieces to throw this entire world into the void. I will do that before I 
allow that ghost to leave the temple. 

You do not need to answer. Just stop. I know how much you love 
your people and your child. Think of them. Of her. Stop. 

Ghazi. 


As I finished reading, I finally noticed that our altitude was starting to dip. 
The lights in the house flickered. 

“Oh great,” I said. Something had happened to the balloon. Our decline 
was slow, thankfully, but that couldn’t be good. I wiped my gore-covered 
hand on my shirt. 


“That’s Denise,” Bonnie said, looking up. “When she gets mad, magic 
stuff doesn’t work. The balloon starts to sink. She usually gets over it pretty 
soon. She’s probably on the roof.” 

Somewhere in the house, there was a crash followed by a distinctive 
pop. That was the sound of the clockwork Mongos exploding, even though 
they still had plenty of time left. Mongo let out a terrified screech. 

I suddenly felt heavier and more tired. I’d lost most of my buffs, 
including the 14 strength from my toe ring and my two regular rings. All of 
my important stats had just taken a hit. 

“Mongo?” Donut called, concerned. “Mongo, come to mommy!” 

Mordecai: Sounds like a boss battle is about to start. The potion’s 
purpose will probably become clear. Don’t drink it, but try to secure it. 

Carl: The monster blocks magic! 

Mordecai: Shit, okay. This can manifest in a lot of different ways. 
But it likely means no spells. No scrolls. Your gauntlet won’t form. 
Only inherent potions will work. Maybe. But if they do, they might not 
work as well. 

Carl: Goddamnit, in English! 

Mordecai: Healing potions will work but only on yourself if they 
work at all. That new splat potion you just got won’t work. You’ve 
likely lost the protections of your gear. Your active buffs are probably 
gone too. Be careful. 

Mongo rushed into the kitchen, screaming, blood rushing from dozens 
of places on his body. He made a pitiful, bleating noise. He hadn’t been 
attacked, I realized. The other two clockwork Mongos had exploded and 
injured him. The little clockwork pieces usually didn’t hurt him. 

Donut gasped in panic. “Carl, Carl, my heal spell stopped working! I 
can’t fix Mongo!” 

She rushed to the dinosaur, whose health was about halfway down. She 
glowed as she attempted to use a Heal Critter scroll. The spell fizzled out. 

“Look, his health is going back up on its own. He’ll be okay,” I said. 
“Stop wasting scrolls. They won’t work. We need to...” 

“Do you want some lemonade?” Bonnie asked again, more insistent this 
time. 

I remembered what Mordecai had said. “Yeah, thanks kid,” I said, 
reaching for the glass. 


The walls shook again, followed by a mighty, distinctive honk! The 
whole house lurched sideways. The pitcher of lemonade went flying. Little 
Bonnie screeched and tumbled off the edge of the kitchen counter, throwing 
the glass aside. Plates and cups flew from the cupboards. The kitchen 
drawers opened, spilling cutlery everywhere. 

I jumped for the flying glass of the yellow potion, but I missed. I 
would’ve caught it, but the glass physically moved in midair away from my 
hand. 

Sonofabitch, I thought. That was on purpose. They were never going to 
let me grab it. Me trying to grab the glass of lemonade was a trigger. It was 
like I’d just tripped a trap, or stepped on a landmine. 

The cup hit the ground, bounced once, then spun away, spilling the 
potion. The house swung a few times and righted itself. Music started to 
play. The open window over the kitchen sink slammed shut on its own. 

“Oh, poo,” Bonnie said. “I spilled the drink everywhere. I’m going to 
have to make more.” 

We were locked in the house. It was just like a boss battle from the first 
floor. 

The music was different than usual. It was slow and haunting, but with a 
distant, steady beat. A chink, chink, chink, almost like a hammer slowly 
beating onto an anvil. 

A giant timer appeared in the air, floating in the middle of the kitchen. It 
was at three minutes. 

“Uh-oh. That’s new,” Donut said. 

I turned to face the hallway. The front door to the house was still open, I 
started to point, but the world froze. 

Fuck. Here it comes. 

B-B-B-Boss Battle! 

It’s a timed knock-out fight! 

You have discovered the lair of a Borough Boss! 

Ladies and Gentlemen, the stakes are getting higher, the battles are 
getting harder, and tonight we have the day’s main event! 

I want you to put your hands together. 

Here are the rules, Contestants! 

The house is falling. It will shatter against the ground in exactly 
three minutes after the end of this message. In order to escape, you 
must defeat the boss! 


Easy, right? 

Wrong, bitches! 

Our mugshots appeared floating in the air. But this time the words No 
Magic stamped on each of our faces. 

You can’t use offensive or defensive magic for this fight! 

I couldn’t move my head, but I could still speak. “Stay behind me, 
Donut. You’re too fragile. PI do the punching. Keep Mongo back until he’s 
fully healed.” 

“Carl, I don’t like this. I don’t have anything without magic!” 

A second stamp crashed onto our names. No Physical Damage! 

Oh yes, that’s right! Your own physical attacks won’t do shit, 
either! 

“What the hell?” I shouted. “How is that fair?” 

This should be a hoot! A hoot, I say! Actually, not a hoot. A... 

“Honk!” 

The world unfroze for a moment as the white goose walked through the 
front door of the house. She waddled into the hallway and angrily honked 
again as the door slammed behind her. 

The thing wore a frilly, baby blue bonnet along with a blue shawl 
around her neck. The shawl was torn and stained with blood. Other than the 
blood, she looked like a regular white goose, plucked straight from the 
cover of a children’s book. 

It’s... 

Denise! The Feral Goose Mother! 

Level 53 Borough Boss! 

Like most of the creatures in this godsforsaken bubble, Denise 
shouldn’t be here. She was plucked directly from the seventh floor 
when her grandfather, emperor Anser, decided to use a magical gate to 
bring his people to this world. But like many of those who were 
unwilling in their journey to this place, she lingered too long in the 
inbetween. The Nothing. 

She paid dearly for it. Her mind is all but gone. 

The gnomes captured her long ago, but they do not know who she 
really is. Denise doesn’t know, either. She has a few special abilities. 
Abilities that only recently started to manifest themselves. She can 
prevent magic from harming her. She is an environmental. She has an 
overwhelming need to protect children. 


But most of all, she just wants to kill everybody. Especially bitches. 

And guess what you are? 

Tick Tock, motherfuckers. 

Aaaand here. We. Gooooo! 

The world unfroze, the timer started to move, and the goose screamed in 
outrage and charged. 

Mongo and I both scrambled out of the way as the shrieking goose slid 
into the kitchen, waving her wings furiously as she slammed into the 
refrigerator, causing magnets to scatter. The door dented. 

“Hi, Denise!” Bonnie said as she continued to stack lemons onto the 
chair, as if this was the most normal thing in the world. 

“Come on!” I yelled. “To the top of the stairs!” 

“Mongo, no! Come!” Donut shrieked. 

It was too late. The still-injured Mongo screeched and leaped across the 
room, feet first. He raked his claws across the recovering goose. He 
chomped onto the neck of the boss and started shaking it like a dog. The 
goose honked angrily and flapped her wings as Mongo threw the creature 
down. The boss bounced once and hopped back up. She jumped atop the 
kitchen table with the gnome corpse and stood upon the dead body and 
flapped her wings again, honking and growling at Mongo. 

“You’re so silly, Denise,” Bonnie said. 

The boss opened her bill to reveal multiple lines of shining, razor teeth. 
A health bar had not appeared. Then the mouth opened further, from the 
sideways this time, causing the whole mouth to open like a flower. A purple 
tongue dripped from the beak. It honked, but this time it came out twice as 
loud and deep, a terrifying, guttural cry straight from hell. 

Its teeth shot out of its mouth, blasting at us like a shotgun. A line of 
fire cut across my arm and face. Donut cried out in pain. 

It hadn’t done much damage, but it hurt. 

Mongo cried out in rage and pain and moved to attack again. 

“Mongo, no!” Donut cried as I lobbed a banger sphere at the goose’s 
head. The goose honked in surprise as the metal ball ricocheted off her bill. 
It staggered her, but again, no health bar appeared. We weren’t damaging 
the goose at all. 

Donut chomped firmly onto the dinosaur’s tail and yanked, pulling the 
indignant and screeching Mongo back just as the goose lunged. The boss 


barely nipped him, but she dislodged a chunk of flesh and blue and pink 
feathers. Blood sprayed. 

Donut, mouth still full of dinosaur tail, let out a strangled cry. Mongo’s 
health was now even deeper in the red. I grasped the dinosaur on both sides 
and heaved, tossing him back, throwing him and Donut toward the kitchen 
door. 

“Go!” I yelled as I slipped backward on the bloody floor. As I 
scrambled to my feet, my hand found a ceramic mug that had fallen from 
the cabinet. I picked it up and flung it at the goose’s head like I was pitching 
a fastball. The mug shattered, and the goose crashed back, flying off the 
table, upsetting it and launching Commandant Kane’s corpse straight into 
the air. The dead gnome splatted into the ceiling then sploshed wetly onto 
the kitchen floor. 

“Mongo, follow me!” Donut cried as she let go of his tail. 

Mongo, having decided this was probably a good idea, shrieked again 
but complied. 

“Up the stairs,” I cried as I stumbled toward the door. The house was 
falling faster and faster, and I could now feel our downward momentum. 
“We need to get out of the kitchen! Bonnie, make your lemonade. Hurry 
up!” 

We needed to get the goose away from the kid. Whatever was in that 
damn potion, it had to be the secret to killing the monster. It was the only 
thing that made sense. 

We rushed down the hallway. I tossed a side table over as the goose 
cried furiously. I was about to drop a smoke curtain, but I thought better of 
it. Even though her dot was still white on the map, I didn’t want to distract 
Bonnie the gnome even more. 

Two minutes. 

How in the hell were we going to defeat it? Mordecai said there would 
always be clues. But what were they? The stairs ended in a T with a 
hallway reaching in each direction. There were several doors here, all ajar 
except one. Two of the open doors led to small bedrooms, one a bathroom, 
one a linen closet. The door furthest to the right was closed, and that was 
the “throne room” where the stairwell to the sixth floor was located. It was 
actually just the master bedroom to the house. The door glowed, and I knew 
it would remain locked until this fight was over. 


The area was scorched and burned from the clockwork Mongos getting 
themselves dispelled prematurely. 

Donut continued to be preoccupied with Mongo and not the fight. The 
dinosaur was bleeding and injured, but he no longer appeared to be in pain. 
He let out a frustrated shriek as Donut clucked over him. 

“Carl, Mongo won’t stop bleeding! My pet carrier doesn’t work! His 
health is still going down!” 

There was a broken side table in the hallway. I picked it up and tossed it 
onto the stairs. “Try using one of those bandages!” We each had hundreds 
of the damn things. It wouldn’t heal him, but it would hopefully stop the 
bleeding. 

Downstairs, angry honking filled the hall as the goose left the kitchen 
and went looking for us. 

“We’re up here, ya overgrown duck!” I called. 

“It worked!” Donut cried. “It’s okay. We’ll get you healed in a minute! 
Carl, what are we...” 

“Go into that room there,” I said, pointing to a bedroom with pink walls 
and posters for some Korean boy band. “It’s directly over the kitchen. 
Break through the floor and make the hole big enough for all of us to drop 
through. Hurry!” 

The beat to the boss music was getting louder and faster as the timer 
moved downward. 

Donut scrambled into the room just as the goose appeared at the bottom 
of the stairs. It opened up its weird flower-mouth and honked. I ducked as 
she fired her mouth teeth again. The little darts peppered their way across 
the wall around me. Two of the barbs caught me in the face. 

“Gah,” I cried, pulling a sharp tooth out of my cheek. 

She wasn’t the most powerful mob we fought, but that didn’t matter. 
She was practically indestructible, and all she needed to do was hold out for 
just a little longer. 

It was only then did I notice the boss now had a health bar. Her health 
had barely gone down, but something had injured her. But what? The goose 
charged up the stairs, hopping up one step at a time, bobbing her head back 
and forth and hissing. Her blue bonnet flapped as she growled. I threw a 
banger, catching her in the chest. She flew back in rage, opening her mouth 
to fire again. I managed to dive out of the way this time. I risked dropping a 
smoke bomb, and then I popped up and knocked her back again. 


One minute. 

“We did it!” Donut cried from the next room. 

I jumped up and ran to the room, slamming the door behind me. I 
looked down through the jagged hole. Donut had easily ripped up the carpet 
and the wooden panels. Bonnie looked up at us through the hole. The 
kitchen was a bloody mess. The corpse of Kane lay on the ground, face 
down. Bonnie had a spoon in the pitcher and was mixing it. 

“Ts it done?” I called down to the kid. 

“It’s better cold,” she said. “Why did you break the ceiling?” 

The door to the room slammed as the goose blindly crashed into it. 
“Come on!” I jumped down through the hole, followed by Donut and 
Mongo. Mongo now had some stuffed animal in his mouth. A pink rabbit 
thing he’d gotten from the room. 

The description on the newly-mixed pitcher of yellow liquid hadn’t 
changed. I still didn’t know if I should drink the potion or give it to the 
monster. It wasn’t hurting the kid. She was under some weird spell, but it 
seemed to protect her from the bird’s wrath. Plus, what did she say? Her 
father had given her the recipe. 

Fuck it, I thought. I grabbed the pitcher from the tiny girl. 

“Hey!” she cried. “Let me pour you a glass! You can’t just take all of 
it!” 

“Pll buy the whole pitcher,” I said just as the goose appeared in the hole 
over our heads. It opened its mouth and hissed. It jumped down toward us 
as I pulled the pitcher to my mouth. 

The world froze once again, the goose hovering in mid-air. The timer 
froze, stuck on thirty-eight seconds. I felt a swell of hope. 

New Achievement! Wild Goose Chase! 

Oh, I’m sorry. Did you think this was an important potion? 

Magic doesn’t work, dumbass. It’s lemonade! 

Reward: It really is delicious. Too bad you’re about to splatter 
against the roof of the catacombs. 

And just like that, the world unfroze. 

“Shit,” I cried, scrambling out of the way as the goose slammed onto the 
kitchen counter. 

It was a trick. And I’d fallen for it. The whole lemonade thing was a 
deliberately-placed misdirection. 


Denise opened her flower mouth and prepared to fire point blank at me. 
I clobbered her with the pitcher, causing her to rear back. 

Her health went down. Barely, but I saw it move. 

I finally understood. The description had said she was an 
“enviromental.” I didn’t think about what that meant at the time. Everything 
was happening so fast, and I hadn’t realized that was a specific type of buff. 
Her health had gone down before when I hit her with the mug, and again 
with the pitcher. She was impervious to my attacks and my weapons. But 
she was vulnerable to damage from objects that were already in the house. I 
thought of the bricks lying about the fireplace. Of the broken shards of glass 
on the ground. It was too late to get to any of it. 

Twenty seconds. 

I leaped for the goose, and grabbed her by the neck. She let out a 
strangled screech and flapped her wings. I tried to grab her bill, but she 
dodged. She opened her mouth and fired directly at me. 

I cried as the stinging line of pain marched across my face and neck. It 
hurt a lot more this time. It was like getting hit with a flaming baseball bat. 
My health plummeted. I slammed on a health potion. It did not work. I 
suddenly couldn’t see from my left eye. The goose squirmed in my grip, but 
I grasped again, this time grabbing her by the face and holding the bill shut. 
She struggled, but despite being a higher level, I was stronger. I felt woozy. 
I was going to pass out. I clung onto the goose for dear life. 

What had the kid said about her father? She’d pointed to the sink. What 
had she meant? I looked again. There was nothing there. What had Kane 
been trying to do? 

I saw the twin light switches to the right of the basin, and then I knew. 

“Donut,” I cried, my voice a strangled shout as I lurched toward the 
sink. 

“What! What?” 

Ten seconds. 

I shoved the goose into the sink, face first. She struggled, feet 
scrambling against me. Everything was suddenly hazy. I had to move my 
hand back to get Denise’s bill in the drain. She tried to open her mouth to 
block me. I shoved it in there. Her head was too big. I pushed and pushed. 
Her bonnet ripped off as her head popped into the hole. 

“The garbage disposal! Hit the switch!” 

Five seconds. 


Donut leaped to the counter and flipped the first switch as I held the 
goose’s head in the hole. The light switched on. “The other switch!” 

Donut hit it. 

The garbage disposal whined, sounding like it was eating rocks. Denise 
went rigid in my hands, her body convulsing like I was holding onto a 
short-circuiting power tool. Blood showered up through the hole, geysering 
into the kitchen. 

The timer paused at one second. 

The whole house jerked to a stop, and we all flew off our feet. The boss, 
still head-first in the disposal and no longer being held still by me, started to 
rapidly spin. 

I cast Heal on myself, and this time it worked. I felt my buffs return. 
The garbage disposal screamed. Mongo glowed as Donut healed him. She 
turned back to the switch and turned off the disposal. The goose continued 
to spin a few times, flap, flap, flap, flap before coming to a rest and 
flopping over. The now-headless boss slopped out of the sink and into my 
lap, where the blood continued to squirt out the neck hole. 

Bubble Notification. The Commandant’s quarters of the Wasteland 
have been successfully occupied. The Air Quadrant has been liberated! 

All give congratulations to the crawlers who successfully took the 
throne room. All hail crawlers Princess Donut and Carl! 

All crawlers who originated in the Air Quadrant may now freely 
travel to the other quadrants. 

I looked up at the ceiling. “Wild goose chase? Really? How long have 
you been waiting to use that one?” 

The house bumped as it gently hit the ground. 


OceanofPDF:com 


[ 17 ] 


OceanofPDF.com 


STAGE 3 OF 4. THE MAD DUNE MAGE 
Time to Level Collapse: 10 Days and 4 Hours 


Views: 17.72 Quintillion 
Followers: 13 Quadrillion 
Favorites: 4.1 Quadrillion 


“T DID ALL THAT SEWING FOR NOTHING?” KATIA SAID AS WE STEPPED OUT 
the front door of the house. She and the others were waiting for us. I came 
out and shook hands with Landry and the other archers. Louis and Firas 
were also there, all looking wide-eyed at the suburban house that now sat 
cockeyed in the sand dune. 

“The parachutes will still come in handy,” I said. “Katia, this is 
Bonnie.” 

“Hey there,” Katia said, taking a knee in front of the child. “How are 
you doing, sweetheart?” 

“Do you know where I can get some lemons?” the child asked. “I want 
to set up a lemonade stand, but I used them all.” She gave me a withering 
look. “Somebody keeps spilling it.” 


The house had landed along the edge of the bowl about a half of a mile east 
of Hump Town. We still had a good hour of darkness left before dawn. 
After the death of Denise, the magical balloon started to slowly refill itself. 
The whole thing would take off again if we let it. Donut and I rushed out 
onto the little square and attempted to sever the lines that connected the 
home to the balloon, but the ropes were like steel cables. We were going to 
have to abandon the house if we wanted to avoid having to jump out. 

I rushed to the kitchen to grab the kid, but she looked at me like I was 
crazy when I told her we had to leave. 


“The house is about to take off again, and we can’t have you floating 
around up there by yourself. It’s not safe,” I said. 

“Well let’s just leave the house down here, then,” she said. She pulled a 
small object from the inside of her oversized shirt. It was a necklace. It 
looked like a walnut. She fiddled with it, and I felt the house settle. 

“What is that? What did you do?” I asked. 

She took the necklace from around her neck and handed it to me. “My 
dad gave it to me when he gave me the potion. He said to give it to an adult. 
I guess you’ ll do.” 

I took the necklace from the girl and examined it. It was a little, purple- 
hued gem. I recognized what it was immediately. 

Soul Crystal. F-Quality. Used to power the balloon that keeps this 
house afloat. Nothing too exciting. You probably want to avoid 
breaking it, though. 

Charge: 89% Kill something to charge it up. 

The crystal was housed in a sliding clamshell-like device. It appeared 
one could control how much power it fed the balloon based on how much 
the clamshell was opened. The thing had stopped feeding power to the 
balloon all together when we were under the anti-magic aura of the feral 
goose. 

We’d seen plenty of these things before. They controlled the ghoul 
generators on the last floor. I had, still sitting in my inventory, a broken, 
about-to-explode soul crystal that would flatten everything within forty-five 
square kilometers the moment I took it out. That one was “C-quality” 
though it wasn’t much bigger than this one. I wondered how powerful a B 
or A quality gem would be. 

“I’m going to keep this, okay?” I said to the kid. I kept the little shell 
open just a fraction, enough to keep the balloon off the ground, but not 
enough to lift the house. Hopefully. I’d have to go out there and experiment. 

Bonnie shrugged. 

The house sat at an angle along a sand dune. The interior looked how 
one might expect a house would after a boss fight with a murderous, 
indestructible goose. Everything that wasn’t bolted down was on its side or 
spilled. Now that I knew the house wouldn’t fly away, we had a lot of work 
to do. 

Donut and I had both gone up a single level. I was now at 44, and Donut 
was 37. That was it. It felt as if we should’ve gotten more. Mongo had gone 


up three, hitting level 33. I was pretty sure I’d never understand how these 
experience points were allocated. It almost seemed random, despite 
Mordecai’s insistence that it was not. 

“See if you can figure out what’s wrong with the kid,” I said to Donut. 
“Her dad gave her something. Talk with Mordecai and try to work it out.” 
Bonnie was on her hands and knees picking up the forks and spoons that 
had scattered everywhere. 

The kid had barely reacted to anything that had happened. After the 
gruesome death of Denise, she complained that she didn’t have enough 
lemons to make another batch of lemonade and then set out to clean the 
kitchen. Her eyes remained dilated as she went to work, cleaning up like it 
was nothing. She worked around the corpse of her father. She was acting 
normal, which was absolutely abnormal in this situation. 

The power to the house remained connected. Same with the water. 
While Donut talked to the kid, I had three goals. First I was going to check 
out the stairwell and throne room—aka the master bedroom. Then I would 
secure all the windows with tarp so this place didn’t get filled with sand. 
And finally, I was going to loot every damn thing I could pick up. I was 
going to inspect and remove the electrical panel if I could. Everything. 

Mongo still clutched onto the stuffed pink rabbit he’d gotten from the 
kid’s room. I patted the durable dinosaur on the head as I went upstairs. The 
door to the master bedroom opened without any effort. I stepped into an 
unremarkable room. A king-sized bed with crumpled, blue sheets stood 
against one wall, and a tall dresser with all the drawers opened sat against 
the other, still miraculously standing. Spilled men’s and women’s clothing 
covered the floor. I eyed a uniform shirt for some plumbing company with 
the name “Dale” sewn on the breast. A framed, University of Arizona 
Master’s Degree in library sciences for the woman who used to live here 
had fallen off the wall, but the glass hadn’t broken. Her name had been 
Jennifer. 

Jennifer and Dale. They’d had three kids. They’d likely all been asleep 
when it happened. 

I couldn’t stop thinking about what Maggie had said, that they could 
bring people back. I didn’t want to think about it, about the potential horrors 
we could face if we lived past this day or the next. 

You’re lucky, I thought. There’s only two people out there they could 
dredge up. For most, that number had to be a lot higher. 


I noticed something else. On the nightstand, a photo that had fallen over. 
I picked it up. It wasn’t a photo, but a drawing. It was Kane, a woman 
gnome, and a baby. He’d removed the existing photo and placed it in the 
frame. He’d slept in this bed. 

It also appeared he’d been jerking off to Cosmopolitan magazines. A 
pile of them lay scattered on the floor along with dozens of used tissues. I 
sighed and turned to the large walk-in closet. 

I could see it on the map, the stairwell. I opened the closet door, and 
there it was. It was only wide enough for two people to walk down side-by- 
side. It didn’t make sense, physics wise, since we were on the second floor 
of a house, but there it was. A blue forcefield prevented me from entering. 
We still had two more throne rooms to capture before it would open. 

After I secured the windows the best I could, mostly by duct-taping 
sheets and tarp over them, I went to work looting everything. Books, toys, 
furniture. The man had been pretty short, unfortunately, so there was 
nothing that’d fit me. The boys had been teenagers, and the girl had been 
about twelve or so. I secured everything I could, including two laptops, 
three televisions, and several gaming consoles. 

Bonnie had been sleeping in the girl’s room. I took the bed and 
nightstand. The closet was filled with Barbie dolls and tons of little animal 
action figure things. I took it all. 

I finally hit paydirt in the garage. In addition to two mountain bicycles 
and a cheap, plastic kayak, they had a full workbench filled with tools that 
had been meticulously organized. There were boxes and boxes of crap. A 
bunch of Christmas supplies, including a fake tree, had been recently put 
away. I took it along with a box of Halloween and fourth of July 
decorations. 

The electrical panel was also in the garage. I pulled the main house 
breaker, and the power didn’t go out. It was as if all the lines were just 
electrified without a source. I carefully snipped a line to test it, and the 
downline outlet still worked. I removed the outlet from the garage wall, and 
only then did it stop working. It didn’t make sense. It was some magic or 
game bullshit. If it was attached to where it was supposed to be, it worked, 
but not once it was removed. 

I didn’t want to flood the house, so I didn’t try it with the pipes. I did, 
however, completely disconnect the main house panel. and I took it. I 
doubted I’d have use for it, but you never knew. 


I did not locate what I was hoping to find. This house came from Texas. 
They had a doormat that claimed they had guns. If they had any in the 
house, however, the system didn’t include them when it reconstituted the 
place. If the couple had a gun safe, it’d probably been in that closet in the 
master bedroom. 

Oh well, I thought. This was still a great haul. 

I wandered back to the kitchen. This was the last room I needed to clear, 
and I hadn’t covered the window or back door yet. Donut sat on the counter, 
chatting away with Bonnie who continued to pick things up. 

“She’s telling me about Sausage, her pig,” Donut said. “She says her 
mother bought him for her.” 

“Ahh,” I said. 

Donut: SHE SAID HER DAD GAVE HER A POTION TO DRINK 
AFTER WE BLEW UP THE WASTELAND. SHE’D BEEN CRYING 
A LOT BUT IT HELPED HER STOP. SHE WAS SLEEPING NEXT 
TO HER DAD IN THE KITCHEN WHEN WE CAME. MORDECAI 
SAYS IT’S PROBABLY GOING TO WEAR OFF SOON. 

Carl: Jesus. Poor kid. Pm glad we got to her before it wore off. 
Katia and the others will be here at first light. They’re going to bring 
Juice Box, who’ ll take care of her. 


“Carl, look!” Donut exclaimed. We were marching back to Hump Town 
with the others. I turned to see the airplane slowly descending from the sky. 
It was the Nightmare II. It had dislodged itself from the main balloon during 
the boss fight, and the emergency balloon had finally lost its juice, sending 
the plane slowly back to the ground. 

I sent Louis and Firas out to secure it and drag it back to the house. It 
would probably fit in that large garage. I tasked them with sticking it in 
there to protect it from the next storm. It’d give them something to do. 

I watched the men scurry off. They both had a new borough boss star 
after their names. They, along with the archers, had gotten into a fight with 
the Thorny Devil queen. Langley said they’d held their own during the 
fight. 


After they killed the queen, the regular thorny devil mobs just 
disappeared. We still had those small, explosive things that came out at 
night and the birds, but we’d pretty much cleared out the bowl. 

Bonnie walked next to Juice Box, who’d taken on the form of a 
dirigible gnome woman. Bonnie clutched onto her hand as they waddled 
along the hot desert floor. The spell still hadn’t worn off. 

“We’ll take care of her,” Juice Box said. “Orphans will always have a 
home in Hump Town.” 

Donut: THAT SOUNDS OBSCENE. 

Carl: Not now, Donut. 

As we walked, I reached up and patted Donut on the head. 

“That was too close, Donut,” I said. 

“But we made it, didn’t we?” She was furiously rubbing sand out of her 
fur. “God, it’s hot. Carl, you need to invent a portable air conditioner. This 
is not acceptable.” 

“Look,” I said. “We need to talk about that battle. Pm glad you and 
Mongo have bonded so well. And I know it didn’t really matter this time, 
but I need you in the fight. Mongo is going to get injured. You can’t get 
overwhelmed by that. We’ll protect him and each other the best we can, but 
you were in a full-on panic over his injuries, and it caused you to 
completely check out.” 

Donut paused in her self-cleaning. “What are you trying to say, Carl?” 

“Pm saying we’re going to die if you’re not paying attention to the 
fight. I can’t do it all on my own.” 

“You didn’t. Who flipped the switch? I mean, really. I couldn’t cast my 
magic, and I am a magic class on this floor. What else was I supposed to 
do? Vomit on the goose? Besides, you had clearly figured it out.” 

“T hadn’t figured it out until the last minute. We got lucky.” 

“That wasn’t luck, Carl. That was you being you. I’m pretty sure we 
were supposed to drown the goose in the sink. Or the lemonade pitcher. Not 
rip her head off in the garbage disposal. You’re a good fighter, Carl. And 
you think fast. That’s why we’re still alive. You rarely think of the proper 
answer to a problem, but you usually come up with one that works 
anyway.” 

I was going to reply, but Katia approached. 

“So what’s next?” she asked. “Are we going into the necropolis?” 

I pulled the letter from the mage and showed her. 


“I’m pretty sure this means we have to take care of the land quadrant 
before we even try to storm the catacombs. The mage guy says he’d destroy 
this world before he’d allow the ghost out. I don’t know what’s going on 
there, but it’s not something we want to mess around with.” 

Katia was visibly relieved. None of us relished the idea of going into a 
dark tunnel system that was filled with water and traps. 

“We’re all going to fly away in that stupid house, aren’t we?” 

I grinned. “Don’t worry. It’ll be a party. A house party.” 


Zev and Loita messaged us as we entered back through the town gates. 

Loita: Congratulations. Barely surviving battles is great for your 
numbers. Keep it up. Donut, you have a new box. They insist this 
version will not explode as you don’t deliberately go into the had cavity. 
Spend some time with it. If it works as intended, we are going to bring 
you two up to do the show a day early. 

Donut: VM NOT OPTIMISTIC, LOITA. 

Loita: I don’t care if you’re optimistic, crawler. Just do as you’re 
told. 

Donut: WELL YOU DON’T HAVE TO BE A JERK ABOUT IT. 

Loita: Do not talk back to me. You keep forgetting your place. 

Donut: I DON’T LIKE YOU, LOITA. YOU SMELL REALLY 
BAD. 

Loita: The feeling is mutual. And if you talk back again, I will have 
Mongo taken from you. We’ll use him to feed a mob on the next floor 
and we’ll make you watch. I can do that. Don’t test me. 

On my shoulder, Donut let out a pained stream of breath. 

Carl: Now, now. There’s no need for you to get your fish panties all 
wadded up. We’ll play with the robot. 

Zev: Anyway, the fans really enjoyed that battle. Good job you two. 
I’m sorry to say this is goodbye, however. I will still be Loita’s assistant 
working behind the scenes, but I’m afraid you no longer need a social 
media manager. 

I held up my hand to stop Donut from saying anything. 

Carl: What do you mean? 


Loita: She means you have purchased the social media board, so 
you no longer need her to interpret and relay what the dry masses are 
saying about you. 

Carl: Can you at least send her down here so Donut can say 
goodbye to her? 

Loita: No. Of course not. 

Carl: What about that infomercial for the robot? Can she go to 
that? 

Loita: No. It is not her job anymore. I will be there, of course. Now 
get back to work. 

The communication cut off. 

“T didn’t even get a chance to say goodbye,” Donut said. She sniffed. “I 
wouldn’t have asked for the social media board if I knew we wouldn’t get 
to talk to her anymore.” 

“Its okay, Donut,” I said. “We’ll see her again. I promise.” 

“You shouldn’t promise things like that,” she said. “You shouldn’t make 
promises you can’t keep.” 

I patted her on the head. “We will see her again, Donut. I keep my 
promises.” 

She butted her head against mine, purring loudly. 


Once we returned to base, I slept for two hours, showered, reset my buffs, 
trained, and ate. I spent some time with Mordecai, experimenting with 
different types of explosive recipes, including making a toothpaste-like gel 
that could burn long and hot. I was getting better at taking recipes from the 
cookbook and then steering conversations to make it look like Mordecai 
was coming up with the idea. 

We watched the recap show. They featured the fight on the falling 
house, and I watched updates on several of the others. Prepotente and 
Miriam were just as far along as we were. They’d managed to scale the 
interior wall of their bubble and kill all the spiders by applying some debuff 
that made them all fall asleep and plummet to their deaths. That had 
somehow also finished out the subterranean zone in their bubble, and they 
were now preparing to go underwater. 


The two-headed creature that represented the Popov brothers was on a 
pirate ship firing cannons at other pirate ships. I didn’t know what was 
going on there. Lucia Mar fought some multi-limbed mummy ice thing and 
shattered him. She was actually working with a group of people, which 
surprised me, though the show was low on details. Quan Ch had already 
popped his bubble, and he was flying around farming all the mobs he could. 

The top-ten list remained mostly the same, but Florin the crocodilian 
had dropped off. The last we’d seen him, he’d been sitting in the starting 
room refusing to choose a bubble quadrant after the death of Ifechi. I 
wondered where he was now, if he was even alive. The top ten list was: 

1. Lucia Mar — Lajabless — Black Inquisitor General — Level 41 — 
1,000,000 (x2) 

2. Carl — Primal — Compensated Anarchist — Level 44 — 500,000 (x2) 

3. Prepotente — Caprid — Forsaken Aerialist — Level 38 — 400,000 
(x2) 

4. Donut — Cat — Former Child Actor — Level 36 — 300,000 (x2) 

5. Dmitri and Maxim Popov — Nodling — Illusionist and Bogatyr — 
Level 37 — 200,000 (x2) 

6. Miriam Dom — Human — Shepherd — Level 34 — 100,000 (x2) 

7. Quan Ch — Half Elf — Imperial Security Trooper — Level 45 — 
100,000 (x2) 

8. Elle McGib — Frost Maiden — Blizzardmancer — Level 35 — 
100,000 

9. Bogdon Ro — Human -— Legatus — Level 35 — 100,000 

10. Chirag Ali — Human — Sacred Paladin — Level 35 — 100,000 

I still didn’t know who that Bogdon Ro guy was. Quan had dropped 
several spots, probably because he’d cleared his bubble early and he wasn’t 
making any moves to leave the area. People got bored easily. He remained 
the highest level, but I was catching up to him. There was a new guy at the 
bottom of the list. I wasn’t sure if I’d seen him or not on the show. 

“T still don’t understand how that goat is so popular,” Donut grumbled. 
“T don’t like being separated from you, Carl.” 

“Do you wish to talk about it?” Robot Donut asked. “We can have a gab 
session, just you and me, girlfriend.” 

“Oh be quiet,” Donut said testily. The novelty of her having “merch” 
had finally worn off. 


This newest version of the robot toy weighed about three times as much 
as the last one, and it was slightly bigger, too. Mongo had immediately 
attacked it, but it hadn’t suffered any obvious damage this time. I spent 
some time playing with the thing, and it was pretty sturdy. They hadn’t 
fixed much else, however. It still threw out random, bootleg Garfield 
quotes. It still reacted oddly to situations. 

Still, this was the best version yet. And it worked as intended. Sort of. 
Loita informed us we’d go on the show in a few hours to discuss the 
product. Katia was still scheduled for another show, but she would go on 
tomorrow evening. Hopefully we’d be in the land quadrant by then. 

The robot toy had a small panel on the back of the head that was held 
closed with a cheap, little tab, much like a battery compartment from a toy 
on earth. I clicked open the flimsy tab and received a warning that the thing 
was going to self-destruct in five seconds if I didn’t put it back. I was 
genuinely curious what was going to happen since we were in a safe room, 
but at the last moment, I shoved the little rectangle back into place with a 
click. 

Mordecai told me not to press my luck since this was a non-enhanced 
toy. 

“What does that even mean?” I asked. I flicked the little tab. Jesus, what 
a piece of shit. 

“You know how some video games required internet access to play? 
Even though they’re single-player? This is the same sort of thing. Most toys 
nowadays require access to a licensed enhancement zone to work. And 
some even take it a step further and require the child to have a license key 
installed in himself in order to unlock all the toy’s features. It makes certain 
his parents are current in their taxes. This one doesn’t have any of that. It’s 
not as fancy as most of the stuff out there, but it’s something that can be 
played with by a child who is on a long spacecraft voyage outside of a 
system’s net. Or by a family too poor to pay their access tax. If you activate 
the self-destruct sequence, the AI can probably teleport it away, but it might 
not, especially since that was added to keep you out of its head. I honestly 
don’t know what would happen. This isn’t something you want to test.” 

The robot hopped up and down in agreement. “Carl, Carl, let’s go kill 
another mantaur!” 

I reached over and patted the robot on the head. It moaned. Like a 
sexual, human woman moan. I jerked my hand back. “Jesus Christ!” 


Carl: So this company, Veriluxx, they’re genuinely trying to help 
poor kids with this bullshit? 

Mordecai: I wouldn’t go that far. I’ve never heard of them, but the 
logo on the benefactor box suggests they’re associated with Veritan 
Linkage. That’s a mostly-Soother lending fund that advocates for the 
enslavement of those who can’t afford their taxes. I’ve been thinking 
about why a company would spend so much on such a stupid toy, and 
none of it makes sense. Only a mega corp could possibly afford such an 
expensive campaign, and they’d only do it if there was some sort of 
pay-off. I doubt just selling a cheap toy is their intent. Odds are we’ll 
never know. It’s likely just a way to funnel money to Borant. They’re 
closely allied with them and the Bloom. 

Carl: Christ. Is the whole universe filled with assholes? 

Mordecai: Just the ones with the money. 

“Oh goodie,” robot Donut said. “I can’t wait to go onto another show. 
Pll get even more fans!” 


I spent some time playing with the watch. The thing was identical to the 
other one Henrik had. The description was less than helpful. I turned the 
bronze watch over in my hand. There was a bone symbol etched onto the 
metal. Pd seen that symbol before somewhere, but I couldn’t remember 
where. The watch wasn’t ticking. 

Mysterious Pocket Watch. 

What in the hell is this thing? What does it do? It keeps terrible 
time. Sometimes the hands move on their own. And there’s a mirror 
built in that isn’t quite a mirror. You need to find a winding box to 
make it work. 

That was it. I opened it, and the little mirror above the face showed 
nothing but blackness. There was a tiny indicator for an alarm. If I pulled 
the tab on top of the watch out three times, I could set it. I moved it so it 
reached the hour hand, and the watch vibrated in my palm like a cell phone 
buzzing on silent. I’d set the alarm off. 

The image on the little mirror changed. A fish-like creature appeared 
and met my gaze. The window suddenly went dark. 


That was Henrik, I realized. He was in the necropolis with the other 
watch, and he was in the form of an underwater creature. I’d set the alarm 
off and signaled him. I sighed and snapped it closed. At least we knew the 
old changeling was still alive. 

“Hey,” Katia said, sticking her head into the personal space. “Bonnie is 
Starting to wake up out of her stupor. She’s over at Skarn’s house. You 
should go see her before you and Donut leave for your show.” 

That was a good idea. We were going to do the infomercial, and the 
moment we got back, we were all going to get into the house and fly it out 
of the bowl. 

“How’s she doing?” I asked as I followed Katia. 

“Not so great. But she’s a kid. Kids are resilient.” 

The dromedarians, to their credit, didn’t treat the girl poorly even 
though she was partially responsible for bombing their town. I wasn’t so 
sure humans would be so forgiving. A group of the camels stood outside the 
home, quietly talking amongst themselves. I followed Katia inside. 

“This is where you’ll sleep,” Juice Box was saying. She indicated a 
comer of the room. 

To my surprise, Donut and Mongo were already here. I hadn’t realized 
she’d finished with her training. 

“This isn’t my bed,” Bonnie said, looking down at the simple cot. The 
little gnome had her arms wrapped around herself. She’d changed out of the 
bloody, oversized football jersey into a simple dress that was also too big 
for her. Skarn stood next to her, his hand on her shoulder. He’d transformed 
into a gnome also. 

“Hey, here you go,” I said, pulling the pink bed out of my inventory. 
Everyone moved out of the way as I manhandled the bed into place. It was 
absurdly large for the little girl, but the home was spacious enough to 
accommodate it. This was the same bed she was sleeping in before. I then 
pulled the little side table that had been next to it, and I placed it down next 
to the bed. 

The girl barely reacted. 

“Denise killed my dad,” she suddenly said. “He knew she was going to 
do it. He said there was nothing he could do. He told me to make lemonade. 
I started to cry, and he gave me the potion, and I wasn’t scared anymore. Do 
you have another one of those potions? Please?” 

“No, sweety,” Juice Box said. 


“It’s okay,” Skarn said. “When my town got bombed, my parents died, 
too. But they take care of me here. The camels are grumpy, but they aren’t 
mean.” 

“Okay,” Bonnie said, her voice small. She rubbed her nose. 

Mongo slowly approached the girl, and he dropped the stuffed pink 
bunny in front of her. The girl picked it up and held it tight. She closed her 
eyes. I took the photo from my inventory, the one of her and her mother and 
father, and I put it on the nightstand. 

Loita: Oh for the sake of the gods. Audiences like drama, but not 
melodrama. Stop concerning yourself so much with NPCs. We’ll be 
transferring you to your program in twenty minutes. 

I motioned to Katia and Donut, and we left the girl with Juice Box. I 
turned to look one last time, and the girl was sobbing, clutching onto the 
changeling woman while she held the stuffed pink rabbit. Juice Box stroked 
the girl’s hair. 

That was the moment. Right then. I’d been toying around with an idea, 
but I’d dismissed it as too risky. Too soon. 

That was the moment I changed my mind. 


OceanofPDE:com 


[ 18 ] 


<Note added by Crawler Coolie. 19" Edition> 

I went on a program tonight. They transported me to a ship that 
floats in low orbit over the planet. The ship has an open window 
with no glass that is only protected by a forcefield. It is amazing. I 
can look down upon my planet. My beautiful, lost planet. If I am to 
die here, I want this to be my last view. 


CARL: I HAVE SOME THINGS COOKING ON MY SAPPER’S TABLE. LET ME 
take care of them really quick before you transfer us. 

Loita: You have ten minutes. Not a second longer. Hurry up, Carl. 
The Veriluxx crew is paying for a rental trailer. 

I rushed across the street to the closest pub and entered our personal 
space. I did, indeed, have two sets of smoke curtains infusing in potions. 
Ever since Pd read about the idea in the cookbook, I’d been experimenting 
with different combinations. The only thing that’d worked so far was 
mixing a smoke bomb with a healing spell, which in turn was a great 
offense against undead. I hadn’t the chance to use it yet. 

I had two infusion stations on my table. In the first, I was currently 
attempting to mix a smoke curtain with a splash of the Rev-Up immunity 
smoothie I’d made on the second floor. The potion gave temporary disease 
immunity, but it made you drunk off your ass. I could tell right away that 


this one was a bust. The smoke curtain was blacked out and had gained the 
Dud status. That’s what usually happened. 

My second infusion was much more successful. I’d already known it 
was going to work because I’d stolen the recipe from the cookbook. I had to 
pretend like I’d stumbled on it on my own. 

Most of my most recent boxes had contained at least one invisibility 
potion. They were pretty valuable. By the time I had five of them, I figured 
it was finally time to justify “wasting” one in order to experiment. 

“Hey, it looks like this one actually turned into something,” I said to 
robot Donut, who stood upon the table watching me work. 

Your Infusion skill has risen to level 3. Just wait until you learn how 
to do this with vodka. 

I picked up the round smoke curtain, which was normally red, but it 
now shined with a multi-colored opalescence. 

Hobgoblin Disco Ball 

Type: Magically-infused Deflagrating Tossable. 

Effect: It’s a real trip. 

Status: 25. Unstable. 

Molly not included. 

Take a Hobgoblin smoke curtain, soak it in an invisibility potion, 
and what do you get? You get a party, that’s what you get! Produces 
heavy, multi-hued billows of smoke that are both photosensitive and 
frequency responsive. And in case you don’t know what that means, 
just set one off and find out. The smoke will conceal all movement 
within, and the plumes will bounce to the beat. 

Warning: Unlike a regular smoke curtain, the caster of this tossable 
is not immune to its effects. In other words, you’ll be just as blind as 
the monsters. So you don’t want to be dropping this thing at your feet 
unless you find yourself to be the most handsome dude at the orgy. 

The act of infusing smoke curtains made them inherently unstable, 
which is why I wanted to avoid trying this with actual explosives. I knew 
once my skill rose a little higher, that’d cease to be a problem. I placed the 
smoke curtain on the edge of the table while I closed up the infusing trays. 

“Good job, Carl!” robot Donut said. 

“Yeah, I gained a skill level,” I said. 

Robot Donut hopped up and down. “Yay! I love skill levels!” 

When the robot jumped up, it sent the disco ball flying to the ground. 


“Goddamnit, robot Donut,” I cried. 

The thing’s status was protected while it was on the table, but not once 
it hit the floor. And while explosives would never go off in a safe room, that 
wasn’t true for smoke bombs. I’d already had it happen to me a few times. 

I took a step back and stepped directly onto the infused smoke curtain, 
which, of course, set it off. 

A rainbow of smoke filled the crafting room. Mordecai, who was on the 
other side of the room, bent over his alchemy table, looked up in time to 
start cursing at me. 

“Goddamnit it to hell,” I said again. I scooped up robot Donut and held 
it to my chest while the thick smoke overwhelmed us. I held the robot tight 
as we were surrounded by eddies of smoke. “Mordecai, don’t move! It’ll go 
away in a minute.” 

“Pretty colors,” robot Donut said. I felt the head turn around to face me 
in the complete, multi-hued smoke storm. The voice went down an octave. 
“This is what we all see in the end. I’m always here for you, Carl.” 


Loita: Are you quite done? It’s time to go. 

Carl: We’re ready. 

Donut had taken a shower and had talked Katia into brushing her while 
I’d screwed around in the crafting room. Katia had laughed her ass off at 
the disco ball incident, especially after Mordecai came out bitching up a 
storm, complaining that I’d ruined an hour’s worth of work. I clutched 
tightly onto the robot. The color tornado had only lasted for a minute, but it 
had left a sandy, technicolor residue over everything and everyone in the 
room. The whole common area smelled like burnt cotton candy. The cleaner 
bot beeped angrily at me and buzzed off toward the mess. 

“T mean, really, Carl,” Donut said as I shook colorful dust from my hair. 
“You both look like you just slaughtered the cast of Rainbow Bright. After 
all that work we did to keep Mongo from hurting her, too. Robot Donut 
could’ve been damaged. Look at her! They’re not going to be happy, Carl.” 

Loita: Transferring now. 

“Tm better than ever, girlfriend!” Robot Donut said from my arms. 
Before Donut could respond, we flashed and reappeared into a production 


trailer. 

I looked about, quickly assessing the situation. My feet sank into lush 
carpet. The tone of the hull quickly told me that we were under the surface, 
not floating. Despite our appearance under the water, my menus still 
disappeared. I did not have access to my inventory. 

This was a nice, middle-quality trailer, but it was a submarine, not a 
boat like the last time we’d gone on a non-Odette show. Despite being 
under the surface, this trailer was set up similar to Odette’s production 
trailer with a green room and a doorway to the studio. In fact, I realized, 
this was the exact same model, though the green room on this one had a 
different layout and included a large picture window that looked about the 
dark ocean. 

“No snacks,” Donut grumbled. 

Loita lounged on the couch in the very back of the room, which 
explained why our menus hadn’t appeared. She was comically small on the 
large cushion. She wore the fish rebreather around her neck, not the 
armored suit that Zev always insisted upon. The small device occasionally 
spit out a small spray of water. A large wet spot had formed around her. I 
approached and leaned over her, tapping on the window that looked out into 
the cold depths. I felt the water from her rebreather splash against my leg. It 
was fully dark out there. I felt the heavy weight of the water surrounding us. 
The “glass” felt more like plastic. I detected a hint of a forcefield on the 
outside, barely visible. 

“Do these trailers go into space, like regular space ships?” I asked. “Or 
are they all off-loaded a larger transport?” 

She frowned, as if surprised by the question. “How is that possibly your 
concern?” 

“We got attacked from orbit a while back, and the folks who did it 
recently tried to kill us again. I was curious how stout these things are.” 

“You’re perfectly safe, crawler. This is an underwater security trailer.” 

I knocked on the wall again. “Security, huh? We just teleported in here 
like it was nothing. If I was an alien assassin, I’d probably figure out how to 
teleport myself into here, too. We had this show called Star Trek, and the 
bad guys were always beaming themselves onto enemy ships to attack.” 

“You know, for such a famous crawler, you sure are a coward. The 
trailer is shielded once you arrive. Nobody comes in or out until the 
program is over. Again, you are safer here than you are in the dungeon.” 


“T hope so,” I said. “Don’t forget, you’re in here with us, too.” 

Her eyes widened, but it was quick. She finally noticed the dust-covered 
robot Donut under my arm. She let out a little gasp of despair. “Oh, you 
idiot! What did you do to the product sample?” 

“Hi, Pm Princess Donut the Queen Anne Chonk!” the robot said to 
Loita. “What’s your name? We were doing crafts. Do you want to follow 
my feed? We kill with style!” 

“Gods damnit, I knew you would cock this up,” Loita said. She sighed 
dramatically. Her eyes started flashing as she entered her menus. “Okay, 
okay. It’ll be fine. They have another model in there anyway. A real one, 
not the dungeon-enhanced version.” 

“Like a real, real one?” I asked, turning toward the door. “Can we take it 
with us when we’re done?” 

“No, of course not. It’ll be a holo.” 

“Well that’s no fun,” I said. 

“There will be a holo Donut doll along with a holo Mongo doll. You 
will go on and interact with the toys, but you will not physically touch 
them, lest we betray the illusion.” 

Donut, who’d been sitting sullenly on the ground—refusing to get on 
the couch next to Loita and refusing to jump on my shoulder because I was 
still covered in multi-colored residue—did a little hop at the mention of a 
Mongo doll. 

“Can I bring Mongo out? Wouldn’t that be lovely? He would just love 
to meet a toy version of himself.” 

“No,” Loita said. “Just go out there, tell them what you think of the 
product. Read the script if you can’t think of anything to say. Do not be 
negative. This is not live, so don’t think you’re going to go changing the 
universe with your bravado today. Anything stupid you say will be edited 
out and we’ll all be stuck in this can for longer.” Loita waved her hand, and 
a virtual square appeared floating in midair in front of the couch. “PI be 
watching the taping from in here. Do not make me get up and go in there. I 
swear to the gods you will not be happy if I have to go in there.” 

Donut grumbled something under her breath. It was something along 
the lines of “Talking Fancy Feast.” 

“Why are you so angry all the time, Loita?” I asked. 

The tiny fish woman glowered at me. For a moment, I didn’t think she 
was going to answer. But then she said, “You. Your cat. Your people. Your 


ugly culture. This is a cancer upon the Bloom, and we should not be doing 
this.” 

I felt my eyebrow raise. “Doing what?” 

“We should not be celebrating your culture. Spreading your filth so the 
fry may see.” 

I laughed bitterly. “Celebrating? You call this celebrating our culture? 
You’re exterminating us and profiting upon our ashes.” 

“If it were up to me, we’d simply exterminate you and nothing else. 
You’re filthy. You’re dry. You’re a rot upon the Bloom.” 

Donut swished her tail. “You probably shouldn’t have become a PR 
agent if that’s how you really feel, darling. Honestly, I can’t help but feel 
you don’t have our best interests at heart. This is why we worked much 
better with Zev. She understood how to exploit our star power.” 

That seemed to have struck a nerve. “Zev? What you have done to Zev 
is the exact reason you are so dangerous. She is young. She is 
impressionable. She is the future of the kua-tin. The Bloom. Her generation 
is enraptured by the newest, shiniest thing. They do not trust in the concept 
of system strength. Of True Unity. Of the Great Consensus. Do you know 
what we had to do just to bring Zev back into the fold? Unspeakable things 
to her mother and her aunts. It was only then did she take the badge. We 
need to do this to a whole generation now because of you. Because of your 
filthy culture.” 

I barely understood what she was upset about, but now I was getting 
pissed. Control, Control. I spoke through gritted teeth. “Well, Loita. If you 
had, you know, just left us alone, you wouldn’t have to worry about...” 

She interrupted, pointing directly at Donut, who looked stricken. “Your 
culture, your non-unifying, defeatist, dry, multi-organ, diversified attempt at 
culture is a deadly contagion, and it must be treated as such. After this 
crawl, after every single one of you dry vermin is dead, the Borant system 
will close its borders and only then will the reawakening occur. Only then 
will we be free of this rot.” 

Donut looked up at me. “My goodness. Is it me, or is she a complete 
loon?” 

I tried not to laugh. Loita growled and was about to say something else 
when her eyes flashed. She took a long breath, splashing water over the 
couch. “It’s time. Enter through the door. Don’t make me get up.” 


I nodded. I didn’t want to say anything else. I didn’t understand any of 
that weird gibberish she was vomiting off about her political party, but I did 
understand what she said about Zev. Do you know what we had to do just to 
bring Zev back into the fold? I swallowed. My hands were shaking. 

I placed robot Donut on the couch next to Loita. “Okay, robot Donut. 
You stay next to Loita. Do you understand?” 

“Stay next to Loita,’ Robot Donut said. “Understood.” She turned her 
head to Loita and said, “Have you ever felt true cold? It comes soon for us 
all. It’s always waiting in the shadows.” 

“Come on, Donut,” I said, turning. “Let’s do the commercial.” 


<Note added by Crawler Coolie. 19" Edition> I am going on another 
program tonight. I have secreted bugbear paste into my boots. I will 
detonate them while I am in orbit. There will be two admins on board. My 
Blast Shield skill should protect me from the explosion—if the skill works at 
all in that place. I don’t even know. But if I blow the ship, it won’t matter. 
Think of me, brothers. It is little, but it is all I have. 


The hosts of Veriluxx New Toys Showcase were a pair of tall, giant-eyed 
alien soothers. The Forsoothed. A man named Gravo and a woman named 
Liddi. I was beginning to realize these soother guys were one of the most 
common types of aliens in the universe. 

Gravo, the male alien, was inexplicably dressed like a cowboy and wore 
a massive, Styrofoam cowboy hat. He wore a gun belt with a six-shooter, 
and he wore a sheriff’s badge on his vest. The word “Sherif” was written in 
English, and it was spelled incorrectly. I had no idea if the misspelling was 
on purpose or not. He wore black and white cow-patterned chaps. He also 
donned cowboy boots with spurs that jingled as he walked. 

Liddi, the woman alien, was dressed in some sort of Wish dot com 
superhero costume that didn’t fit her. The suit was blue and red like it was 
attempting to approximate Superman’s colors, but the cape was also in the 
black and white cow pattern, matching her partner’s chaps. Upon her chest 


was the word “Veriluxx” where Superman’s “S” should be. She wore a 
simple, orange-colored, eye-covering mask that clashed offensively with the 
rest of her outfit. 

“What the hell, man,” I said as we strode into the studio. 

“Times like this, I wish cats really were colorblind,” Donut grumbled. 

The room was set up to not have a studio audience. It was a simple table 
with all four of us standing behind it. There was a raised chair for Donut 
and a small box for me to compensate for the soothers’ height. The toys 
would supposedly appear on the table, and we were supposed to discuss 
how awesome they were. 

Liddi approached and waved. “Hello, hello. Pd shake your hand, but 
you know. I can’t!” The woman, superhero alien grinned down at us. 
“Princess Donut, I must say, you are one of my favorites. I only have two 
feeds favorited, and yours is one of them.” 

“Oh?” Donut said, brightening. She jumped up into the chair. “Well it’s 
always a pleasure to meet a fan.” 

The female soother had a bunch of tiny, pinback buttons on her breast. 
They were all showing different animals I didn’t recognize. Though there 
was one pin at the bottom that was of Pinhead from the Hellraiser movies. 
“I am just so excited to have you on the show today. It was my idea to bring 
the Donut doll to life.” 

“Yeah, was the Garfield thing your idea, too?” I asked. 

“Who’s your other favorite?” Donut asked before Liddi could respond. 
“You said you had two.” 

“Oh, Lucia Mar of course. Everybody has her as a favorite.” 

“So what is this?” I asked, indicating the alien’s outfit. “You always 
dress like this?” 

Gravo, the cowboy soother answered. “No, we don’t,” he said. He had a 
much more dour personality. “The clothes are to attract attention from 
children. We are about to film a commercial for a fake program called 
Veriluxx New Toys Showcase. This commercial will play on screens of all 
ships docked for fueling and repair if there is a demographically-targeted 
youth aboard or if there is someone who might wish to purchase such a toy 
for a youth. The item will be physically available for immediate purchase at 
the waystation’s shop, or it'll be available to order on the Syndicate 
network. This is a low price-point toy with a few desirable features for low- 


income families, so we are anticipating a very aggressive marketing 
campaign.” 

“Wait, so this is like a commercial that only airs at gas stations?” I 
asked. 

“Fueling depots and way Stations, yes,” Gravo said. “It’ll be targeted at 
children who watch Donut’s feed as well.” 

I thought of all the toy commercials that had enticed me as a child. “So, 
what? We’re just going to stand here and talk about the stupid robot?” 

“That’s the plan. And we’re renting this trailer by the second, so let’s 
get this started. And don’t call it stupid while we’re recording.” 

“Wait,” I said. “Do these commercials actually work for you guys? 
Wouldn’t it be better to have actual children playing with the toys? You 
know, commercials with explosions and music and colors and kids running 
around with the toys?” 

Gravo made a scoffing noise. “Research indicates that children prefer to 
have a trusted adult speak down to their level and present them with the 
best possible options. As the parents are the ones who most often purchase, 
this logical approach both piques the child’s interest and gives confidence to 
the parents.” 

I exchanged a look with Donut. I almost argued with him, but I didn’t 
give a shit about the stupid robot toy’s success. I was too tense, anyway. 
Too wound up to form a coherent argument, especially since I knew 
Veriluxx’s parent company were just as terrible as everyone else in this 
damn universe. 

I thought of Loita, sitting there all smug in the next room. 

“Okay, let’s do this.” 


<Note added by Crawler Coolie. 19" Edition> I have failed. I have blown 
the ship, and my skill indeed protected me, but the forcefield around the 
ship has prevented it from fully breaking apart. The admins only appeared 
to be with me. They were holos. I was fooled today, and I am ashamed, 
brothers. The gravity has failed, the temperature is dropping, and it is 
getting difficult to breathe. I do not think they can remove me while the 
forcefield remains. 


But I see my planet, my beloved Qurux. It shines, and it warms me in 
this cold. I pray one day someone will avenge her, for I cannot. 


“This sure is a hoot,” Donut said, reading the line that floated in the air in 
front of us. She was not doing a very good job of being natural. I knew that 
she, too, had been thrown off by Loita’s comment about Zev’s family. She’d 
already soured on the idea of going on this particular show and was phoning 
in her lines. 

Neither of the soothers seemed to notice. 

“Yeehaw!” Gravo said. He was like a zero-personality tax accountant 
who was being forced to perform for children. He pulled his six shooter and 
shot in the air. “It sounds like this toy is a high falutin’ hit!” 

I was pretty certain he was using “high faluting” incorrectly. 

The toy Mongo screeched on the table and bounced around the toy 
Donut. The Mongo was designed to mimic the real deal in his juvenile stage 
and was pretty damn adorable. It stood about half of Robot Donut’s height. 
As we watched, robot Mongo jumped up and chomped robot Donut on the 
nose, who howled in pain. “Bad Mongo! Bad!” the robot said. 

“So, Carl,” Liddi asked. The super hero costumed-soother was actually 
going by “Professor Liddi” for the commercial. I didn’t know why. “What’s 
your favorite part of the Veriluxx RealPet companion?” 

A paragraph of text appeared floating in front of me. I ignored it. 

“Actually,” I said. “I like how trainable they are. We only had robot 
Donut for a few days, but I taught her several tricks.” 

Gravo looked irritated and was about to pause the taping so I could get 
back on script, but Professor Liddi rolled with it. “Oh?” 

“That’s right,” I said. “She says the weirdest shit. But if I tell her to sit, 
she sits. If I tell her to follow, she follows. She’s much more compliant than 
the real Donut.” 

“Hey,” Donut said. “Don’t be offensive, Carl.” 

Both Liddi and I laughed. “I mean, that’s what we all want, isn’t it? 
Compliance?” 

“What do you mean?” Liddi asked. 


“What is your parent company called again? Veritan Linkage? Isn’t that 
their thing?” 

Nobody said anything for several seconds. 

“Stop rolling,” Gravo said. He turned on me. “I don’t know where you 
heard that, but that’s absolutely not true. Veritan is our parent company, yes, 
but we operate independently from them.” 

I shrugged. “That’s not what I heard. Someone said your parent 
company advocates for slavery. People are saying there are really trackers 
hidden in the toys.” 

“Carl, what are you doing?” Donut asked, looking up at me. She’d 
removed her sunglasses for the show and looked at me wide-eyed. 

“Just stick with the script, okay?” Gravo said. “Don’t be an imbecile. 
There’s nothing you can say that’ll make it onto air, so why bother?” 

“Nothing I can say in here,” I said. “The dungeon is another story, 
though, isn’t it?” 

“What?” Gravo said. “What are you trying to say? Are you trying to 
shake us down for a loot box? Is this a joke? Do you really think that would 
work?” 

I had no idea if Veriluxx toys had any sort of sinister motive with all of 
this. Mordecai seemed to think it was a money laundering operation or 
something. Honestly, I didn’t care. This was dangerous. Stupidly dangerous. 
I was gambling all of this was about to be forgotten. 

I just needed Loita to get up off that damn couch. 

“Listen here, crawler,” Gravo started to say. 

The lights flickered. The two soothers disappeared. The floor shook. 
The studio went black then filled with red lights. A terrible creaking noise 
filled the chamber. 

“Warning. Fire suppression system activating.” 

The voice came over a loudspeaker. 

Donut jumped to my shoulder. “Carl, Carl, we’re under attack!” 

“Hold on,” I said. “Be ready for anything.” 

“I can’t cast my spells in here!” 

I bolted for the green room door. It irised open as I approached. Smoke 
poured out through the hole. 

The couch against the back wall was obliterated in the explosion. I took 
a deep, relieved breath that the picture window hadn’t ruptured. 


But then I realized the window had ruptured. A massive crack ran 
across it, like a lightning bolt. The blue forcefield was the only thing 
keeping the water out. Shit, shit. It appeared the forcefield was holding. 
Thank god. Thank fucking god. 

Actually, no, I thought. Not god. Coolie. Thank you, Coolie for the 
information. 

“Carl, I think robot Donut blew up!” Donut said, looking around. 
“Where’s Loita? Did she...” Donut gasped. The crumpled form of the 
dungeon admin had been blown across the room and had smashed against 
the wall. Donut rushed to her. The small kua-tin was missing her left arm 
and both of her bottom legs. Her rebreather, miraculously, still worked. Her 
entire fish body was blackened. She looked as if she’d been flash-fried in a 
pot of oil. 

But she wasn’t dead. I felt my heart quicken. She couldn’t just teleport 
away. They had to first lower the shield. But if they lowered the shield, the 
window would break, and Donut and I would die instantly. 

Borant had to make a choice, I realized. They could probably heal her in 
seconds, but only if she teleported away. Save a low-level admin or save 
their two highest-grossing crawlers? 

I looked down at the injured woman and smiled. 

“You... you did this,” Loita panted. 

“What do you mean?” I asked. “It was an accident. The robot blew up. 
You’re the one who made them put that self-destruct sequence in it. I was in 
the other room. I have no idea how it blew. You saw how buggy that damn 
thing was.” 

Outside through the broken window, multiple lights appeared, rushing 
toward the sub. These were other ships, coming to repair the trailer. They 
wouldn’t get here in time. 

“You won’t win,” she gasped, gurgling the words. Foamy, colorless 
liquid oozed from her mouth and gills. “The Bloom will prevail. You will 
be forgotten.” 

“Nobody likes melodrama, Loita,” I said as the kua-tin died. 


<Note added by Crawler Carl. 25" Edition> Coolie. I know you can’t read 
this, but I want you and every future reader to know that I used the 
information from your passage to help plan the first step. If it wasn’t for 
your words, I wouldn’t have had the confidence or knowledge to act. What I 
did today I did for you and for a little girl named Bonnie. My only regret is 
that my first step was a small one, and I don’t know yet if I'll survive long 
enough to take a second. 

But if I do manage that second step, please forgive me. What I do from 
here on out is solely for me and my people. As long as I am alive, I will do 
everything I can to make them burn. 

They will not fucking break me. 

<Note added by Crawler Carl. 25" Edition> One. 


OceanofPDF.com 


EES 


ĪT ONLY TOOK THE REPAIR SUBS ABOUT THIRTY SECONDS TO MEND THE 
damage. The moment it was fixed, Donut and I teleported away. But when 
we jumped, we did not return to our personal space. That did not surprise 
me. 

Our destination, however, did. 

Entering the Desperado Club. 

We were in a small, cluttered office. The paper-covered desk was 
occupied by a tall man. The shadowy figure wore a dark cloak with a hood, 
which supernaturally obscured his face, grim reaper-like. His hands, the 
only flesh I could see, were a dark, dark purple, almost black. His elongated 
fingers were almost elf-like, though the man’s height suggested he was 
nothing of the sort. 

It was a small office, with wood slat walls and the same tiled floor as 
the rest of the Desperado Club. A tapestry hung from one wall, looking 
almost like a Turkish rug. There were no other decorations. Through the 
wall, I could hear the very distant pulse of the nightclub dance floor. 

Our status indicators did not snap back on, but I could examine the 
man’s properties. Sort of. 

Orren. 

Syndicate Liaison. 

There were a pair of old, wooden chairs in front of the desk. 

“Please,” the man said, indicating the chairs. “Carl and Donut. Sit.” He 
had the voice of a British professor. Authoritative, but not aggressively so. 

We both wordlessly sat down. I chewed on the jagged edge of my 
fingernail. The chair wasn’t high enough for Donut to look over the desk, 


and she suddenly looked very small sitting there. I reached over and gave 
her a pat. She was trembling. 

The man put his pen down and folded his hands together. He regarded 
us. The darkness under his hood swirled. 

“My name is Orren. I do not work for Borant. I am an independent 
consultant retained by the Syndicate. I am a neutral third party observer. I 
work in concert with the current season’s showrunners, the Syndicate 
government, and the controlling AI. You would not normally meet me or 
one of my colleagues but under certain extreme circumstances. And as you 
can imagine, these are extreme circumstances.” 

“So, what? You’re like the vice principal of a high school? You collect 
the naughty boys and girls and tell them what their punishment is?” 

He approximated a shrug. “I am a non-AI fact finder. Not quite a sheriff. 
Not quite an attorney.” He paused. “Not quite a judge.” He moved in his 
chair, and it creaked, like his body was heavier than it looked. “If the 
Syndicate sees something that requires more information, they will ask both 
the kua-tin and AI for reports on what happened. Sometimes those reports 
contradict each other. Sometimes those reports are inconclusive. In such 
cases, a liaison such as myself investigates. And if the facts warrant it, I 
recommend what should be done about it.” 

We were in extreme danger here, and we both knew it. I felt for poor 
Donut, who’d had nothing to do with what had happened in the trailer. But I 
didn’t regret it. Not one bit. 

The creature steepled his fingers. “Do you know how many 
assassination attempts there have been on dungeon admins over the solars?” 

“Probably a lot,” I said. 

“More than we would like to admit, yes,” the man—Orren—said. “And 
quite a few have been successful, too. Two seasons ago, a crocodilian 
managed to snap the head off of his outreach associate. He shouldered the 
admin into the hallway and literally bit the man’s head off. And instead of 
teleporting him away into the crawler disposal unit, the idiot Fortent admins 
sent two of their own security agents to subdue the crawler and also got 
themselves killed before the AI finally intervened. Three admins at once, 
which were the only admins killed by crawlers that season.” 

Orren casually leaned back in his chair, which continued to groan and 
creak ominously. I knew he was wanting me to say something, to offer up 
information—much like how a real vice principal would if he was trying to 


get an unruly student to admit their guilt. I wasn’t going to say a word 
unless he asked me a direct question. 

“Three was nowhere near the record, of course. But three is still 
considered a lot. Last season the Squim Conglomerate had no admin 
fatalities due to crawler attacks. I’d like you to guess how many have died 
this season so far due to your fellows.” 

That was a trick question if I’d ever heard one. 

“Zero,” I said. 

The man grunted with amusement. “Not including this most recent 
death of Admin Loita, the number for this season currently stands at 15. 
Lucia Mar has killed two. Three if you count her first game guide, which 
we do not. The rest were all one-off attacks.” 

I was genuinely intrigued at that, and more than a little proud of my 
fellow humans. “I thought all violence against admins was met with 
immediate justice from the AI. That’s what the warning says.” 

Orren ignored me. “Fifteen is already considered a disaster. Do you 
know why that number is so high this season?” 

I shrugged. “Probably two reasons. My people don’t like fish telling 
them what to do. And the kua-tin are running this show as cheaply as 
possible. I don’t know the details on how these zone things work, but I 
know they make it more dangerous for the workers.” 

“You are correct, on both accounts.” He drummed the desk with his 
hand. “However, crawler. Every one of those fifteen deaths, and in fact, 
every single admin murder from the first crawl until this very moment all 
have one thing in common.” He leaned in. I detected a very slight distortion 
to his voice, like he was talking through a speaker. “We know exactly how 
the crawler pulled it off. This dungeon is the most scrutinized, most 
surveilled location in the universe. Yet, nobody knows exactly how you did 
it.” 

“She died because that stupid cat blew up,” I said. 

“Carl, Pm beginning to suspect this Orren fellow thinks we murdered 
Loita,” Donut said, speaking for the first time. 

“No, no, you misunderstand, crawler Carl. We know exactly how she 
died. It took longer than I’d like to ascertain all the facts. We were, at first, 
thrown off by the force of the explosion. There were no extra explosives 
brought into the production trailer. Yet, the explosion was more powerful 


than it should’ve been. That was the first mystery, though the AI did have a 
quick explanation for that. Do you know what it was?” 

“I had the cat on my table,” I said. “She was watching me decant those 
infusions.” 

He slapped the desk and pointed at me like I’d just given him the 
answer to an equation. The sudden and unexpected sound was like a 
thunderclap. I tried not to flinch, and I hated myself for flinching anyway. 
“Yes! The yield on the toy’s self-destruct mechanism was artificially 
enhanced by the AI simply because it sat upon your sapper’s bench while 
you were working on it, which as you know is one of the benefits of your 
table and your explosive handling skills. But that happened on its own. 
Records indicate you made no direct adjustments to the toy’s explosive. It’s 
what you did next that caused the explosion.” 

Donut scoffed. “Oh my god, he does believe we did it on purpose.” She 
made a frustrated noise and then jumped onto my shoulder so she could 
look directly at the man. “If Carl was going to purposely kill Loita he 
would’ve shoved a stick of dynamite in her gills and then kicked her in the 
head. Carl is very good at killing things, and he can be very clever about it 
sometimes, but he doesn’t do secret Asian man style murders.” 

“Agent,” I said. 

“What?” Donut asked. 

“Tt’s secret agent man. Not secret Asian man.” 

“Are you sure?” 

“Yes, I’m sure. How does ‘secret Asian man’ make sense?” 

“Yes, I supposed that does make more sense. Anyway, that’s not his 
style, and besides, every one of his plans always screws up somewhere 
along the way. He would’ve been caught. When he was with Miss Beatrice, 
his definition of ‘subtle’ was pulling his boxers down and saying, ‘me so 
horny.’ No offense, Carl.” 

“What? I never did that.” 

“Oh, right. That was Brad, wasn’t it? Anyway, you get my point. This 
was not my Carl’s handiwork. It’s quite impossible. He is not a ninja. And 
before you ask, it wasn’t me, either. Do you have tape of the actual 
explosion? I would just love to see it. Are you certain it wasn’t one of those 
Skull empire orcs? Or maybe the Veriluxx people remote detonating it 
because Carl had discovered their secret, evil plan?” 


Orren nodded. “We have surveillance from the Mexx unit in the trailer, 
but that is it. Since you weren’t in the room, the footage isn’t nearly as 
holistic as we’d like. But it doesn’t matter. What happened is quite clear. 
Administrator Loita jumped down off the couch. The toy jumped down to 
follow, and a few seconds later, it exploded, killing her and almost killing 
you two as well. The panel on the back of its head dislodged when it 
jumped, which activated the creature’s self-destruct sequence and set off the 
explosion. Due to the interface lock-out because of Admin Loita’s presence, 
neither of you received the self-destruct warning.” 

I grunted. “So that shitty little panel on the back of the cat’s head fell 
off? Look, it’s no secret that we didn’t get along with her. But that panel 
was made out of plastic. That toy was a cheap piece of crap. I mentioned it 
was going to fall off on its own more than once.” 

He nodded. “I know. I watched the recording multiple times. It’s not 
plastic, at least not as you know it. The panel was made of a reactive, 
tamper-proof polymer called Zentix. It’s very popular throughout the 
galaxy, especially in children’s toys. It’s designed to fail under certain 
circumstances. Obviously, the explosion part isn’t usually a feature of the 
toy, but the panel is designed to break if someone tampers with or attempts 
to illegally modify the toy’s innards.” 

“Then why is there a panel in the first place?” Donut asked. “If you 
can’t play with it, then why is it there?” 

“Tt depends on the toy. Most have varying degrees of features depending 
on the user license. Some panels can only be accessed by authorized users. 
Some have controls that can only be adjusted by qualified personnel. It’s a 
smart polymer with multiple security settings. It’s not important. We are 
straying from the point.” 

“So what is the point? What’re you trying to say?” I asked. 

“I’m saying the residue dust left behind by the disco ball smoke curtain 
started to slowly eat away at the panel. That process was greatly enhanced 
when you placed the toy within range of Admin Loita’s rebreather 
apparatus. The moisture caused the remaining dust to run across the panel 
and along the edges. Then you engineered a situation that would cause the 
admin to get up off the couch. And because the toy was programmed to 
follow her, the act of jumping down dislodged the panel and thus caused the 
explosion. It was, quite simply, one of the most brilliant assassinations I 
have ever seen a crawler execute. And I applaud you for it.” 


“This is just like the end of a Perry Mason episode,” Donut said. “I’m 
almost disappointed it’s all made-up and Carl isn’t really going to start 
crying from the witness stand and confess to the murder.” 

Donut was cracking jokes, but I knew that she was very tense. And 
worried. 

“But,” Orren continued, ignoring Donut, “as impressive as it was, we 
cannot allow crawlers to murder admins, even low-level ones such as 
Loita.” He slid a piece of paper from the pile on his desk and turned it 
toward me. It was a mostly-blank sheet of paper with a signature line at the 
bottom and a hand-written headline at the top in Syndicate Standard that 
read, “Admission of non-sanctioned violence by Crawler number 4,122 
‘Carl.’” 

“You want me to sign a blank piece of paper?” I asked. I was mildly 
offended that they’d think that would actually work. “Yeah, no.” 

He shrugged. “You might just survive if you admit it. Lucia Mar happily 
signed a confession both times, and she’s still in the dungeon. We’d give 
you a similar deal.” 

“If you really thought I’d killed her, we wouldn’t be having this 
conversation. You wouldn’t be asking me to sign anything.” 

Orren didn’t say anything for several moments. “You knew the 
forcefield would protect the trailer’s hull from the explosion. You asked 
about it. You knew about the chemical reaction that would eat the panel. 
You created one of the few explosive combinations that leave behind a 
persistent residue.” He pulled the blank sheet of paper away and produced a 
second one, and this one was covered with many, many paragraphs of text. 
It still had a blank signature line at the bottom. “You’re obviously getting 
information from an outside source. We know it wasn’t Agatha or any of 
her helpers. None are in your bubble. We don’t believe it was Odette, 
either.” 

I reeled at the mention of homeless, shopping cart-pushing Agatha. 
What was it she’d said to me way back on the second floor? Them critters 
already know I’m here. They just don’t know what to do about it. 

“Tell us who your source is and how they communicate with you, and 
you will be returned to the dungeon with no penalties, and you will be given 
a Legendary box that will contain an item that will all but guarantee your 
survival until the ninth floor.” 


I was stunned at the offer, but only for a moment. Contract or not, there 
was no way I was going to trust them about anything. Besides, my “source” 
was the cookbook, and I did not want to give it up. If I mentioned it, it 
would disappear. Would they even believe me? It wasn’t worth the risk. No 
fucking way. 

Plus, this guy’s version of the assassination was significantly more 
complicated and high-tech than what had really happened. 

I had no idea about the polymers or the residue of the disco ball reacting 
with the weird space plastic. That shit was well beyond anything I’d be 
willing to trust. Donut was right that my plans usually went off the rails. 
This time it had been to my benefit. That whole chemical reaction thing was 
nothing more than a happy little misdirection. 

I had known about the forcefield thanks to Coolie’s passage in the 
cookbook. I had known that the disco ball would’ve covered everything in 
technicolor dust, also thanks to the cookbook. My purpose with that had 
been simple. I wanted to get that crap all over the toy so they wouldn’t want 
it brought into the studio. That was it. 

I had not known that little panel was made of some weird type of 
plastic. I did, however, know it was a piece of shit. Pd been worried from 
the start that the stupid panel would fall off. Pd been toying with using my 
duct tape to hold the thing in place. 

Instead, I came up with an idea for it to fall off exactly when I wanted it 
to. 

If I was going to risk everything, then all of the circumstances had to be 
perfect, and I wouldn’t know if they were until the last possible minute. 
Only then could I gamble on “arming” the toy. I hadn’t realized the dust 
from the disco ball was already doing the job for me. 

Any kid who’s had battery-operated toys—or any adult who’s had a 
remote control for their television—knows exactly what happens when that 
ridiculous little plastic tab over the battery compartment breaks or somehow 
gets out of whack. The whole cover refuses to stay put, and any big jolt 
causes it to take a dive, usually disemboweling the batteries in the process. 

I couldn’t just outright break off the little tab. That would’ve been both 
obvious and would’ve caused it to fall right away. So instead of breaking it, 
I simply pushed it down with my left palm, placed my left thumb between 
the little tab and the holder, and I broke off my strategically-cut left thumb 
fingernail, creating a shim. 


I'd been collecting all the broken pieces of the robot Donuts every time 
Mongo killed one. I had a perfectly-preserved back panel from the first 
iteration in my inventory. I sat on the toilet and practiced the move several 
times with other fingers before I got it right. I’d cut my nail 3/4s off, but 
close to the finger so it wasn’t noticeable. The panel thing was such an utter 
piece of crap, it easily fell off with just a little foreign object. In fact, it was 
so flimsy, so easy to fall off, I was starting to suspect the toy had actually 
been a low-effort assassination attempt on us. 

When I’d leaned in to tap on the glass and ask Loita if the trailer could 
go into space, thus confirming Loita was really there thanks to the moisture, 
Pd attempted to get my nail in place, but it’d slipped out. I’d had to lean in 
a second time to get it right. I leaned over the couch, and I’d made the move 
with my left hand, pressing the robot toy against my chest. In the end, it’d 
been simple. I held the panel in place as I pulled my hand away. When I 
placed the toy on the couch next to the admin, I’d pulled away with enough 
force to dislodge my fingernail, which held the panel precariously in place. 

I practically crapped myself when the robot Donut had turned its head 
to say some creepy shit to Loita. But the little panel had held. It wasn’t 
visibly loose. But I knew it would go flying the moment it jumped to the 
ground. When I’d told robot Donut to stay by the admin, I knew the heavy 
robot would jump off the couch the moment she’d stood up. Loita had been 
so distracted by my attempted extortion of Veriluxx, she likely never 
noticed the little piece of plastic falling off the cat and landing on the 
carpet. 

And that’s what killed her. 

“I’m not signing anything because I have nothing to give up, nobody to 
rat out,” I said. “And believe me, I’d love to get a free legendary box. But I 
have nothing to give you in exchange. This was an accident. But you’re 
obviously not an idiot, so I won’t lie to you. I wish I had thought of this. I 
wish I had outside help because if I did and thought I could’ve gotten away 
with it, I would’ve done it without hesitation, but I wouldn’t have wasted 
the opportunity on some low-level bitch like Loita.” 

Donut, still on my shoulder, was stiff as a board. 

The faceless man said nothing for a moment. “And who would you have 
used it on, then?” 

I didn’t answer. There were only so many lines I could cross. There was 
so much I wanted to say. I thought of Brandon. Of Yolanda. Of everybody 


else in the world. They had all died, and nobody cared. Yet someone like 
Loita died, and we had to go through all of this? 

You will not break me. Fuck you all. I will break you. I will break you 
all. 

Orren sighed and pulled the paper away. “Very well. As we are unable 
to determine what happened and no consensus exists regarding the incident, 
I have no choice but to recommend that the Syndicate close the matter. 
However, you should know we have implemented a punitive measure onto 
Borant for the remainder of this floor, as this wasn’t an isolated incident. No 
crawlers will be allowed to be teleported away by third parties until the next 
floor opens. Yes, that means your next appearance on Odette’s show has 
been cancelled. She’s already filed an appeal.” 

I had so many new questions. Lucia Mar had killed two admins and 
gotten away with it? How? Why wasn’t she dead? 

“You can leave via the door,” the man said, dismissing us with a wave. 
“Your bodyguards are outside waiting.” 

“Sledgie is here? Yay!” Donut said. 

“And just so you know, Carl. That was lucky. I admire your grit. It 
makes for good entertainment, but I wouldn’t press that luck. Whomever 
this is that’s helping you, they are not doing it for your benefit. If the kua- 
tin hadn’t intervened on your behalf, this would’ve gone much differently.” 

I paused as I stood. “What do you mean? How did they intervene?” 

He didn’t look up. “Certain crawlers are simply too valuable to just 
throw away off screen, no matter how recalcitrant they are. Ultimately it’s 
their call. And even though I can’t find legal cause to place Administrator 
Loita’s death upon you, if it were up to me, I’d have you removed anyway. 
We discussed this in council, and it was decided that my personal 
recommendation be ignored. For now. The mudskippers aren’t known for 
their ability to recognize threats. If the rumors are correct and we do take 
over after the next floor, I hope my own people will be much more willing 
to listen to my personal assessment.” 

My interface was still turned off so I couldn’t look at the timer, but I 
suddenly felt a chill. As far as I was aware, Loita had blown up about 45 
minutes ago. But all of this... council meetings, court appeals, hand-written 
confessions... 

“How long have we been away?” I asked. 


“Tt’s only been five days. You’re lucky it wasn’t longer. You still have 
five days left to finish your bubble. Your partner Katia has gotten into some 
interesting adventures while you’ve been gone. She’s back on the top ten 
list. Above you, actually. You two are about to slip off, so you probably 
want to get back to work.” 

“Goddamnit,” I said. I slapped the man’s desk in frustration, and papers 
went flying. I wasn’t upset about slipping off the top-10 list. I was pissed 
about losing all that time. Dont be too mad. You’re the luckiest 
motherfucker in the dungeon right now. You did it. You got away with it. 

Next time it wont be so easy. 

Orren looked up then, and the man’s hood slipped. The swirling black 
coalesced, and I realized it was actually a face-shaped bowl of liquid, made 
to look like swirling darkness. Within that liquid I caught a tiny glimpse of 
light. Mordecai had described what they looked like to me, so I recognized 
what was in the liquid. A worm. A Valtay worm. 


If Mordecai wasn’t covered in feathers, I knew he’d be pale as a sheet. 

Donut was completely poofed out and hopping up and down like she’d 
taken two extra espresso shots. She’d released Mongo, who fed off her 
energy and was also bobbing up and down excitedly. She’d already told 
Mordecai and Katia about the death of Loita and was now breathlessly 
attempting to explain what had happened afterward. It all came out in one, 
long, unfiltered, incomprehensible paragraph. 

“...And they thought Carl was doing some Breaking Bad chemistry 
stuff, and I told them that was impossible because Carl used to pull his 
pants down when he wanted relations from Miss Beatrice, and that’s when 
the guy realized that Carl probably didn’t do it even though I was wrong 
because that was actually that Brad guy she went to the Bahamas with. 
Also, did you know it was agent and not Asian? I had no idea. Anyway, I 
think maybe the AI told them that Carl probably did do it? I don’t know, it 
was quite odd. Because he also said that the kua-tin said he didn’t do it. 
And that means the AI had to have thought that he did because he said there 
was a disagreement about the facts. And then the grim reaper-looking guy 
accused Agatha the shopping cart lady and Odette of helping us even 


though they’re not even in the bubble and Carl was all grumpy and said, ‘I 
wish I had done it’ and I thought we were going to get into more trouble but 
the guy didn’t care. But she’d really just died because the back fell off and 
blew up. And it was really her own fault, wasn’t it? She’s the one who 
insisted on putting the blow-up stuff in the toy, and they did, and it ended 
up killing her. The commercial was lame anyway because it was only going 
to be shown at gas stations. I mean, really. It’s embarrassing. But we can’t 
go on shows anymore for the rest of the floor. Odette is so mad she filed a 
court case about it. Oh, oh Katia, did that mean they canceled your show? 
Sorry about that.” 

“My show wasn’t canceled,” Katia said. She didn’t sound too thrilled 
about it. “I went on it. They added the ban as my show was being taped. 
Zev told me about the ban just before I teleported back down here. She also 
told me what was happening with you three.” 

Donut gasped. “Zev? Really? You talked to her?” 

“She said she’s our temporary PR agent until everything gets sorted out. 
She said she’ll send a message later.” 

Donut did a little hop. 

Mordecai nodded. “I didn’t think I was going to see you again. I got a 
notice that there was a liaison hold on Donut, and then suddenly it was five 
days later.” 

“Wait, so you were also gone?” I said. I turned to Katia. She was now 
down on the land quadrant and was in the personal space via a pub down 
there. She was also now level 41, three higher than the last time I’d seen 
her. 

Donut and I were still in Hump Town. “You must’ve thought we were 
dead.” 

“I didn’t know what the hell was happening until Zev told me. You 
weren’t available on chat, Mordecai disappeared, but it didn’t show you as 
dead, and all the personal space upgrades remained. Once I learned we 
wouldn’t know your fate for a few days, I had to take matters in my own 
hands. I tried flying the house to the land quadrant, but it wouldn’t let us at 
first until we figured out what was wrong. By the way, if you hadn’t left the 
controller with Louis, we never would’ve been able to fly the thing. I’ve 
spent the last five days killing scorpion men and arguing with Gwen. We 
could really use your help down here. Louis and Firas are already on the 


way back to pick you up. They’ve turned into quite the pilots. Once you get 
your asses down here, I’ ll catch you up.” 

Mordecai still looked out of sorts. He was muttering to himself. “Only 
the fifth floor, and the liaisons are already involved. By his left tit. Next 
thing you know, the lawyers will be here. Everything gets complicated once 
the lawyers get here.” 

I ignored him. “Do you know if Chris and Maggie are still trapped?” 

“They are,” Katia said. “Langley and his guys are still up there with 
you, and he’s keeping an eye on them.” 

“Why couldn’t you get the house down to the land quadrant?” I asked. 

Katia waved her hand. “It’s a long story. We almost died figuring it out. 
It was because of the stairwell in the master bedroom. Remember what 
Louis did to his mother’s minivan? He had to do it to the house. You’ll see. 
It’s not the most elegant solution, but it works.” 

“Jesus,” I said. “We really do need to catch up.” 

Mordecai was still going off about what had happened to us. “A 
godsdamn syndicate liaison. And he just let you walk right out of there? I 
can’t believe it.” 

“Yeah,” I said, grinning. “He didn’t even say anything about this.” I 
held Loita’s rebreather up in the air. I’d looted it off the dead kua-tin’s body. 
Since I couldn’t access my inventory at the time, I’d just shoved it into my 
boxer’s waistband. The device was small, about the size of a cat collar. I 
tossed it into my inventory now. It wasn’t very valuable and could only be 
used by a knee-high creature with gills, but you never knew what was going 
to be important. 

Mordecai just gawked at me, beak hanging down. 

“Wait until you hear what Carl said to my sponsor!” Donut added. 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[ 20 ] 


Time to Level Collapse: 4 Days and 22 Hours 


THE ENTIRE TOP HALF OF THE HOUSE WAS GONE. IT LOOKED AS IF A GROUP 
of blindfolded and drunk beavers had decided to do a remodel job. They’d 
ripped the top floor and the attic away, haphazardly decapitating the home 
about six inches below the first floor’s ceiling, which meant all of the rooms 
on the first floor were open to the elements. The tops of the walls were 
jagged and splintered. The fireplace and attached chimney had also been 
lopped away, but it still rose about five feet over the top of the walls. As I 
watched the balloon approach, a single brick fell off the stack, falling into 
what had once been the living room. 

When they’d done their butcher job, they’d severed multiple electrical 
lines and water pipes in the process. They’d attempted to cap off the water, 
but one of the pipes appeared to have become dislodged in the journey to 
come pick us up. Donut and I watched as the balloon settled in front of 
Hump Town. Water arced into the air from the middle of the house like 
they’d sheared off a fire hydrant, and the main had been knocked sideways. 

“What’s with the water?” I asked. 

Firas jumped down off the edge of the garden and out into the sand 
dune. The tall man rubbed dust off his boots and stood to his full height, 
grinning at us. He stood with confidence, and I immediately saw the change 


in him. When I’d first met the guy, he’d only been level 22. He was now 30. 
That was still behind the curve, but he’d made up a lot of ground. 

The water continued to arc away, causing a rainbow to form in the air. 
Mongo screeched joyfully and rushed into the spray and started dancing 
about. The sand around his feet was quickly turning to mud. 

“One of those chainsaw buzz-ards lopped off the cap we had on that 
water line, and it blasted itself out of the sky. They’re like miniature 
versions of that giant boss that gave Katia the dangle saw. It was actually 
pretty damn funny. Still don’t know where all the water is coming from. I 
wish I had that much water pressure at my old place. It’s bizarre. The power 
still works, too. The things are a pain in the ass. The chainsaw buzz-ards, I 
mean. But they’ve been rare for the past few days.” He indicated the water 
arc. “The one who did that surprised us. Pll cap it off after we land. Did 
Katia tell you about how she stuck the house in her inventory?” 

“What?” I asked. “She can stick the house in her inventory? Balloon 
and all? Like, the whole thing? How?” 

“Oh dude. You’ve been gone ages. A lot has happened. It was Louis’s 
idea. We had the thing floating just off the ground. Katia did that weird 
thing she does when she puts the backpack on, and it worked. Then that 
same night after the recap episode, they patched it, and the whole damn 
contraption just popped out of her inventory, floating over our heads. It 
almost smooshed all of us. We were all in a pub called Cuttlefish Point, and 
it pretty much blew up the tavern. The pazuzu guy that runs it was pissed. 
We all had to jump on the thing and fly away. Thought he was going to 
sting us for sure. It was pretty intense. Then Louis peed over the edge on 
the guy while he was still screaming up at us and it pretty much got us 
banned from town. I thought Gwen was going to rip his schlong off. Katia 
had to stop her from kicking his ass but she was laughing too, and that 
made Gwen even more mad.” 

I just looked at the guy. I cursed myself again for missing so much. 
“Where’s the stairwell?” 

“Oh yeah. So we had to hack the top of the house off just to dislodge the 
closet in the master bedroom. It wouldn’t let us leave the quadrant with the 
stairwell still attached to the house. It’s sitting about a half of a mile east of 
town. Close to where you landed the first time. Langley has a couple of his 
guys on it, keeping it clear of sand. It’s going to be tough starting tomorrow 
once the Red Equinox hits. They’re building something to protect it.” 


“Shit,” I said. I’d completely forgotten about that. For the last few days 
in this bubble, the weather and night/day patterns were going change. It 
would be dark for something like sixteen hours a day, and the sand storm 
would be twice as long and intense. 

“Yeah,” Firas agreed. “Down there the sand storm is a little different. 
Instead of it just blowing every which way, it always moves in a circle, like 
a clock around the island. And there’s a lot of lightning. It’s already getting 
darker early down there, too, so it’s now dark during the storm already.” 

“Speaking of the storm, we gotta get moving,” Louis said, appearing 
from the inside of the house. The pudgy crawler had also leveled up to 30. 
“We need to hit the landing pad before it starts. Gwen said she’s going with 
the flood plan if we’re not back in time. Plus those feral pazuzu fuckers 
come out at night, and I want a clear landing zone. Oh, hey Donut.” 

“Hi Louis!” Donut said from my shoulder. 

“Wait, more ‘feral’ monsters?” I asked. 

“Yeah, let’s go,” Louis said, all business. He turned and went back 
inside. 

“The feral thing is the mage guy’s fault,” Firas said. “Anything that gets 
stuck in the Nothing for more than a few minutes goes crazy. I don’t 
understand how any of it works. You’ll be assaulting the castle when you 
get down there. But only if that Gwendolyn lady hasn’t murdered Katia 
first.” 

“Do you feel out of the loop?” Donut whispered. “I feel out of the 
loop.” 


Part of me was proud that Katia had just rolled with us going missing. 
She’d gotten a lot done. She’d managed to get the whole house down to the 
land quadrant, and she’d figured out how to breach the magical door that 
guarded the front of the land quadrant castle. All without us. Firas told me 
that they would have finished with the castle already if Zev hadn’t asked 
Katia to wait for us. 

At the same time, part of me stung at the notion that she could do this 
without me. It was stupid. Selfish. And it was more than a little narcissistic 
to think that without me and Donut, Katia and the others were absolutely 


screwed. But that feeling was there, and I was simultaneously relieved that 
I’d been wrong and horrified I’d been thinking it in the first place. 

I still didn’t know if we’d get there in time, but Katia and the others’ 
actions while we were away proved that I wasn’t as indispensable as I 
thought. And in the end, I realized it was a necessary feeling. 

You’ll die in a gutter without me. You need me. You think you’re just 
going to be fine? What will you do, you disrespectful little shit? You will 
break after just one day. And then you’ll die. That’s what you’ll do. Just like 
your fucking bitch of a mother. 

I took a deep breath, clearing the memory away. I dove into my chat to 
check in on everybody. 

Bautista had already cleared all four of his quadrant’s castles, though 
most people in his bubble hadn’t survived. He wasn’t a man to show his 
true feelings in his chats, but I had the impression he was having a hard 
time with it. Li Jun and Li Na and their team were about to storm some 
underwater castle, the last in their bubble. Meadow Lark were building a 
cannon to shoot oil into the sky which would hopefully take down the last 
of their castles. If that didn’t work, Elle was going to use her new Graupel 
spell to crash the air castle. 

While we descended, Louis and Firas also gave us updates on some of 
the more popular crawlers. One of Lucia Mar’s rottweilers—Gustavo, the 
smaller one—had somehow “accidentally” killed a group of crawlers after a 
battle. The event had caused Lucia to undergo some sort of psychotic break 
—one worse than usual. They’d shown the strange crawler sitting alone ina 
room sobbing, which was the first real emotion they’d ever portrayed other 
than rage and pure insanity. Florin the shotgun crocodile guy had finally 
emerged into a quadrant to find everybody else in the entire bubble was 
already dead. He was desperately trying to make his way through it, but 
he’d only managed to clear one castle so far, and the general consensus was 
that he was screwed. The goat squad was almost done with their bubble, but 
Miriam Dom the shepherd lady was hit with some curse that ended up 
changing her into a goddamned vampire. Apparently she was a vegan 
before this, and the assholes thought it’d be hilarious to do that to her. 

I listened to it all as I watched the side of the necropolis fly past us. The 
massive tomb was even bigger when you were looking at it from this angle. 
The volcano-shaped building was more mountain than actual structure. The 
exterior wall was covered with intricate carvings depicting pterodactyl-like 


creatures and other birds, all in an angular, Aztec-like style. I kept looking 
for a repeating pattern, but I didn’t see any two stones that were the same. 
There was probably a story there, in those carvings. 

Nests dotted the side of the structure. Firas said that’s where the buzz- 
ards lived, but they were mostly gone now. We saw no mobs as we 
descended. 

As for the poor assholes stuck in the subterranean quadrant, they were 
all still hiding in saferooms at the very top. Two of them—NMike, the one 
dressed like a goddamned banana and Bobby the trap-finder—had gathered 
several water-breathing scrolls and ventured out. They ended up setting off 
a trap in a water-filled tunnel. Mr. Banana got himself killed when a tube 
shot from the wall, pierced his stomach, and filled him with “Finger-sized 
Flesh Weasels.” They ate the poor guy from the inside out. Bobby had 
quickly retreated after that. The others were now paralyzed with fear and 
were waiting for us to drain the place before proceeding. 

I examined the sandcastle as we approached. The dark building was 
huddled against the side of the necropolis, making me think of a scared dog 
cowering against a wall. The castle looked as if it really was made out of 
sand. It wasn’t as huge as I thought it’d be based on Gwen’s description, but 
it still had the look of a medieval-style fortress. Or maybe a small casino 
that was medieval-themed. It stood about three stories high with thin watch 
towers on either side of the front façade. It appeared the castle was actually 
guarding the entrance to the massive tomb beyond it, and I wondered if 
there was an entranceway there. Probably, I decided. 

Darkness spread across the landing zone. I caught quick sight of the 
receded beach. The exposed and dried coral reef looked like a forest of 
brambles in the darkening sky. It gave the O-shaped land quadrant a 
menacing, fairy-tale appearance. 

“Does anything come out of the water?” I asked Firas. 

“We see shark fins and the tops of giant, blue jellyfish, but nothing 
comes out. Not anymore. There were snakes for a while. Big ones that 
could go in and out of the water. Gwen killed the boss, and they’re gone 
now. The two other survivors from that water quadrant are here, and they do 
not want to go back in there. Vadim and Britney. They say there are horrors 
deep down near the ocean’s floor.” 

I had forgotten that Chris had not beaten that level alone. “Did you tell 
them about Chris?” 


“Yeah,” he said. “Neither of them were surprised.” 

Donut stiffened at the mention of the water quadrant. She’d been 
relieved when we learned that it had been defeated. I knew the poor cat was 
terrified of the idea of getting wet. I hoped we could avoid it. 

We landed in a circle painted on the beach with red rocks. Two crawlers 
stood nearby waiting for us. Katia was one of them. She stood there in her 
seven-foot-tall warrior form, crossbow over her shoulder, grinning up at us 
as we disembarked. 

Mongo spied her and screeched joyfully, jumping off the still- 
descending platform to bounce all around her as she patted him on the head. 
Louis and Firas went to work securing the broken water main as Donut and 
I jumped down. 

“So you just thought you’d take a vacation?” Katia asked. “Next time 
you plan on getting away for a while, please warn me.” 

I patted Katia on the shoulder. We’d literally just seen her in the safe 
room, but Mongo was screeching and bouncing like he hadn’t seen her for a 
month. “So,” I asked. “How was the Dungeon Sidekicks show?” 

“Don’t ask,” she said. “They made me do karaoke with Miriam Dom.” 

“Firas was just telling me that she’s turned into a vampire.” 

Katia nodded solemnly. “She did. That was after. While she was on the 
show, apparently Prepotente had a panic attack and went berserk and went 
running off. When she got back from the show, she went looking for him, 
and that’s when she got attacked and cursed.” 

“Yeah, that goat guy is a weird dude.” 

“T liked him. I thought he was a gentleman,” Donut said. 

Katia grinned. “Anyway, I’m glad you’re back. We really need you for 
this next part.” 

I turned to face the short, chainmail-clad woman standing next to Katia. 

“Hello, Gwen,” I said. 

“Hello, bomber guy. Hello, Princess Donut. So you two finally fucking 
made it,” she said. 

Now that we were face to face, I vaguely remembered her from the 
previous floor. We’d exchanged fist bumps when Donut was collecting all 
the now-worthless engineer hats. The woman was about 45-years old and 
solid. She’d remained human and stood just about five feet tall. I knew from 
earlier conversations she was from Canada, and I realized now she was of 
First Nations origin. She wore a glowing, metal skull cap with a fur lining, 


but from what I could see of her dark hair, it was cut short. She had a no- 
nonsense metal spear slung over her shoulder. 

The most distinctive feature on the woman was the forehead tattoo. It 
was old and weathered and faded, and it was obviously from a time long 
before she ever ventured into the dungeon. It was a double-v tribal pattern. 
The back of her hands and fingers were also covered with simple, straight- 
line tattoos ending in arrowheads. They almost looked like doodles. 

The woman examined me with hard, dark eyes. At first I thought maybe 
she was a little pudgy, but upon closer examination I realized my error. I 
recognized that look from my years working at shipyards. This woman had 
a body built on hard labor, a nose that had been punched so many times it 
likely crinkled when you touched it, and scarred knuckles that had probably 
finished just as many of those fights as they started. I guessed she’d been 
either a dock worker, a farmer, or in construction. Someone whose work 
required her to spend most of her days working at varying physical tasks 
and whose nights were likely spent at the bar drinking and fighting her 
paycheck away. 

I knew the type very, very well. I examined her properties. 

Crawler #1,293,776. “Gwendolyn Duet.” 

Level 34 

Race: Human. 

Class: Boring OI Fighter. 

“Oh, I just love those tattoos,” said Donut. “What do they mean?” 

Gwen laughed. “They mean that we are wasting time, little princess. 
Now you two get your asses in gear. Your partner has been stalling me for 
almost a full day now, and that clock keeps getting lighter by the minute.” 


The weather down here was still warm, but it was much cooler than it’d 
been up above. It smelled like the beach, which was oddly comforting. The 
sand formed deep channels during the most-recent sandstorm, ringing the 
land quadrant with concentric circles, like lanes on a track. We walked in 
one such channel, approaching the castle. 

“Sorry we can’t wine and dine you first, bomber boy, but we need to get 
trucking on this bullshit your friend is making us do,” Gwen said as we 


marched toward the castle. “The storm that’s about to hit is the last one 
before the weather change, and we don’t know if that’s going to fuck us 
over or not. We can only do Katia’s electric door thing during the sand 
storm.” The ring of walls spread in front of us, each about twenty feet tall. 
Each had been breached, allowing for a wide doorway. 

We passed the remains of what looked like a siege tower made out 
wood and bicycle parts. I itched at the idea of just leaving all that good 
material just sitting there. 

“That mechanical boss bird trashed that,’ Gwen said, seeing my 
interest. “When you killed the thing, it saved our asses. The walls were a 
real pain. Each one had to be picked apart in a different way. But we did it. 
Of course this was before you guys showed up with a flying house. And 
now you two, and that Arnaaluk of a friend of yours are going to go in there 
and try to kill the mage for us.” 

“And Mongo,” Donut said. 

Mongo screeched in agreement. 

“Just us?” I asked. I felt my eyebrow raise. I looked over my shoulder at 
Katia, who smiled sheepishly. 

“Oh, she didn’t tell you of the deal, did she?” Gwen made a clicking 
noise with her mouth. “Why does that not surprise me?” 

“She’s going to tell me now,” I said. 


I decided it was for the best that we have this discussion over chat. 

Carl: What are we walking into? Also, what’s the deal with you 
two? 

Donut: I LIKE HER. SHE REMINDS ME OF A MINIATURE- 
SIZED HEKLA. 

Carl: Yeah, because that turned out great. 

Katia: She is an amazing fighter. She’s fast, too. Her class trades 
fighting skills for no magic spells whatsoever. I watched her use that 
spear to pierce a pazuzu in the back, vault over him, and use the 
momentum to throw his body at another monster. The problem is she’s 
a real bitch. She is like Hekla in some ways, though instead of scheming 
in her head, she just says it out loud the moment she thinks it. And if 


she doesn’t like you, she will tell you. And then just to make sure you 
were paying attention, she’ll say it again, but in a different way. At least 
Hekla pretended to be supportive. 

Carl: I was actually surprised when Firas said you two were always 
fighting. I thought you could get along with everybody. 

Katia: I made a promise to myself not that long ago. I wasn’t going 
to take shit any more. When Gwen makes up her mind about 
something, it’s impossible to change her mind. And then she becomes a 
bully about it. I don’t like that. 

Donut: THAT MAKES HER SOUND MORE LIKE CARL THAN 
HEKLA. HE’S NOT A BULLY THOUGH. 

Katia: Agreed. Carl doesn’t insult you when you have a different 
idea. 

Carl: She’s exactly the type of person who would survive here. So 
what’s the deal with the castle? 

Katia: Okay, so here’s the problem. We’ve discovered there are two 
ways to take the castle. Easy way and hard way. Gwen wants to do it 
the easy way. But if we do it her way, I think we’re going to lose our 
chance at getting that winding box from the mage. Honestly, I’d also 
much rather do it her way too, but Zev has been unusually insistent 
that we wait for you two. 

Carl: So you told Gwen to wait for us. And now you’re fighting a 
lot. 

Katia: Bingo. 

Carl: Okay. Lay it out for me. 

Katia: The castle is made of sand. There are no tunnels or rooms or 
anything inside. It’s just sand with a stairwell buried in the middle. 

Carl: Wait, what about the mage? What was his name? Ghazi. That 
was it. The note I found in the air castle said he’d basically destroy 
everything before he’d allow the ghost in the last quadrant to escape. 
So we know there’s something going on in there. 

Katia: Yeah, so most of this information is from a drunk scorpion 
guy. He’s like this quadrant’s version of Juice Box. The Mad Dune 
Mage—Ghazi—turned himself into a sand elemental while trying to 
search for the Gate of the Feral Gods. That’s how he managed to get 
that one part he has, the winding box. He’s all mixed in with the sand 


now. There’s a magical door to get into the castle, but you can dig 
behind it. At first I thought it was a portal, but it’s not. 

Carl: So it’s just a door leaning up against a pile of sand? 

Katia: Sort of. I’ll explain in a second. After they breached the last 
wall, Gwen’s team found a secret drainage panel up against the side of 
the necropolis wall. If they turn it, it will release all the water inside the 
necropolis and shoot it back out into the ocean through the main 
drainage tunnel, which is what the sandcastle is built around. We 
wouldn’t even need to get through the magical doorway. It’ll just 
destroy the sandcastle, like we were hitting it with a water hose. Easy, 
though apparently it would only half drain the necropolis because the 
water is still being pumped in. So the water will be running in a loop. 
The pump on the submarine needs to be turned off in order to fully 
drain the necropolis. Our friend Maggie didn’t do that before she left 
which means no matter what happens, we’ll have to go back down 
there. 

Donut: NOT GONNA HAPPEN. 

I sighed. I could see the game design, the hands of the bubble creator in 
all of this. I had no idea how the math worked out, but there had to be at 
least two dozen different ways this could’ve gone depending on the order in 
which these castles were taken. Because the water quadrant had gone first, 
the subterranean quadrant filled with water. And since it was filled with 
water, it allowed for the easy destruction of the land quadrant. But we were 
still screwed, even if we did take out the castle the easy way. 

Carl: So if we blow it out with the water hose plan, we take the 
castle, but the mage guy gets turned to mud, and we’ll never find the 
winding box. What’s the hard way? 

Katia: You see those two towers on either side of the sandcastle? At 
the base of each tower was a coiled-up electrical line with clips at the 
end. If you attach the line to the tower and then to the door, when the 
sandstorm hits, lighting hits the towers, and they act like lightning 
rods. They electrify the doorway, and a glass hallway appears. If you 
examine it while it opens, the message says it only opens once per 
sandstorm. But the door closes really fast. There’ll only be enough time 
for a few of us to enter. I made a deal with Gwen that we would do it. 
She thinks we’re idiots for trying it this way when there’s an easier 
solution. 


Donut: WE NEED LIGHTNING? THAT’S JUST LIKE IN THAT 
TIME MACHINE MOVIE WHERE THE GUY MAKES OUT WITH 
HIS MOM. 

Carl: Jesus, Donut. How much television did you really watch? 
What happens after the door closes? Wouldn’t the castle turn back to 
sand? Also, what about Louis and Firas? 

Katia: Uh, so I was thinking that too. I asked Mordecai while you 
were coming down here, and he thinks it’Il probably remain intact, but 
only as long as the storm lasts. So about two hours. The storm will last 
longer starting tomorrow, but we don’t know if it’ll still work when 
everything changes. We have to do this now. I told Louis and Firas to 
stay outside to make sure Gwen doesn’t get all Hekla on us and decide 
to flood the castle while we’ re in it. 

Carl: So we’re just going to run inside the castle and then fight 
some crazy magic user guy who has the power to toss us into a different 
dimension? Do we have a plan other than that? 

Katia: You’re the one who wants that box. 


The doorway to the sandcastle of the Mad Dune Mage looked like any other 
regular dungeon door. Like Katia said, it was not a portal. Just a magical 
door. There was a small moat in front of the castle, but there was no bridge, 
and the moat itself was empty. Like everything else, it was just made out of 
hard-packed sand. I knew if we followed the moat semicircle all the way to 
the necropolis wall, we’d find the panel that would allow one to open up a 
large pipe that would quickly turn the whole castle into mud. 

A small group of battle-hardened crawlers watched us as we approached 
the doorway. The electrical lines that snaked from the bottom of the two 
towers were still attached to the entrance frame. One was pulled tight. The 
other hung loosely. The moment I saw that second wire I could hear the 
booming, teeth-rattling voice of my instructor at “A” school where I learned 
the basics of electrical repair. Loose wires cause fires! Loose wires cause 
fires! 

These were high voltage jumpers covered with plastic insulation. Each 
cable was as thick as my leg, though they were light, made of some alien 


conductor. The line on the north tower was pulled taut against the contact 
atop the left side of the doorway. The line on the south tower was 
ridiculously long and sat coiled like a snake. 

I looked up at the sky. The wind was starting to howl. There wasn’t any 
lightning just yet, but it would arrive at any minute. I also noticed another 
pair of cables high above, connecting the two towers. 

“Gwen, Katia. Have you seen any other contacts anywhere? Anywhere 
else where these clamps might fit?” 

“No,” Gwen said. “And we searched pretty good. It worked yesterday 
when the lightning hit.” 

“Shit, did we do something wrong?” Katia asked, looking nervously up 
at the sky. 

“Pm not sure,” I said. “These two towers are already connected, so this 
second, long cable is redundant. We either need to bring it in with us or it 
might attach to something out here we haven’t found yet.” 

“There’s nothing metal to attach to,” Gwen said. She pointed at a human 
crawler, a level-28 human Swashbuckler. He was a tired-looking Asian 
man. That was the same class as Bautista. “Tran here has a metal-detecting 
ability.” 

“There’s nothing?” I asked the man. 

He shrugged. “Nothing except that wheel that opens the drainage pipe. 
Actually, you know what? There is a ring under the wheel. I thought it was 
a handhold.” 

I had a thought. “Okay. Disconnect it from the tower so you won’t get 
zapped, but I want you to grab the other end and pull it all the way to the 
wheel. Let me know if it reaches.” 

The man looked uncertainly at Gwen, who nodded. He ran off. We 
watched him disconnect the lead from the south tower and disappear around 
the side of the side of the castle, dragging the long cable behind him. 

I returned my attention to the entrance. “The door should still open with 
only one lead attached. Also, I wonder how much power it requires to 
activate. We might be able to hook it up to a dwarven battery or even the 
flying house and test it to see if there’s any reaction. Even though lightning 
carries a pretty big...” 

Bam! 

I felt the hair on my arms stand on their ends. I remembered the moment 
when Gore-Gore the mantaur had been electrocuted by the third rail in the 


tunnels. The ground all around us danced as the sand momentarily 
electrified. The painful tingle of a near miss washed over everything. 
Mongo yowled. Donut’s hair all poofed out as she hissed. A bolt cut low 
across the sky, and the two towers glowed. 

The door was only five feet in front of me. It also glowed blue, the door 
disappeared, and with a crackling noise that sounded like all the ice in the 
world breaking at once, a hallway appeared, leading off into darkness. 

“Let’s go!” Katia cried, bounding forward and disappearing inside. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 21 ] 


Donut, Monco, AND I SCRAMBLED TO FOLLOW KATIA THROUGH THE 
electrified doorway and into the hallway made out of glass. 

Entering the Sandcastle of the Mad Dune Mage. 

Zzzzt. I cringed as the door vanished behind me. The walls didn’t 
collapse, but the doorway disappeared. We were now stuck in the castle. 
Darkness encompassed us. 

“Light,” I whispered, and Donut cast her Torch spell. 

“Gah!” We all cried out as the brilliant light became unbearable. The 
torchlight bounced off the walls, changing colors, blinding us with a prism 
of hues. 

“Turn it down!” 

“This is the lowest it goes,” Donut said a moment later. The spell was 
now just a tiny ember floating in the air, causing the glass hallway to glow 
brightly and with a rainbow of light every time the ember moved. I took a 
step forward, and the glass floor crunched under my feet. It didn’t break, 
nor did it visibly crack, but it felt as if the floor rested upon an uneven 
dusting of gravel. The walls and floor were warm to the touch. 

A long, thin hallway spread before us. The hallway was made of a 
cloudy, white and blue glass filled with cracks and imperfections and 
lightning-patterned streaks of black that sparkled in Donut’s light. The 
ground and walls were uneven, as if they were almost a natural formation. 
A t-junction appeared at the end of the hall. 

Katia was forced to shed some mass in order to stand upright. 

“How’s the map look?” I whispered. Whispering felt appropriate. The 
glass hallway felt eerily abandoned, like alive at the same time. It was 


difficult to explain. Like we were exploring a photograph and not living, 
breathing place. 

“Tt’s a bunch of rooms and a few stairways, both up and down,” Katia 
said. “I see the level stairwell. It’s below us in the basement. I don’t see any 
monsters at all.” 

“Look, look, I found something!” Donut said, jumping from Mongo’s 
back to the floor. She poked at a small lump with her paw. It was a glass 
mouse. The tiny thing was frozen in time, running along the edge of the 
hallway. Its feet were melded with the floor. She reached forward to touch 
it, and it broke into dust. 

“Ew, ew,” she said, returning to Mongo, wiping her paw on his feathers. 
“Tt just exploded!” 

“I think this place used to be real,” I said. “I mean, like a real castle, and 
that guy did something that turned everything into sand. Or glass. I’m not 
really sure what’s going on here.” 

The hallway was too thin for us to stand side-by-side. Katia went first, 
Mongo second, and I held up the rear. If we got attacked from the front, 
Donut would leap to my shoulder. We had just under two hours, and this 
place wasn’t that big. We decided to quickly clear this floor and the upper 
floors first before descending to the basement with the throne room. We hit 
the first junction. The right led to an up and down stairwell, and the left 
turned to a large room with a fountain and statue within. 

Everything in the room was made of glass, frozen in time, including the 
fountain. I stepped forward to examine it, wary for monsters or traps. There 
was no movement or sound other than the crunching under our own feet and 
Mongo’s nails scratching upon the glass. 

The statue was human-sized, and it depicted a robed, female figure 
holding her arms out while she stood in the middle of the round fountain. 
Arcs of sparkling, crystal-clear glass sprouted up from the figure’s feet, 
raising to about waist height before curving downward again. The glass 
gave the impression of movement. This statue and fountain, before it had 
been turned to glass and frozen, had been of a woman standing in a bowl, 
arms outstretched in a Jesus pose but with her legs planted in a wide stance, 
her mouth wide open, as if she was belting out a tune. The fountain’s water 
flowed upward from all around her feet. It would’ve appeared that she was 
standing amongst a crashing wave. Or maybe atop a geyser. 


Upon closer examination, I realized the glass statue did not depict a 
human. Her large eyes and small nose looked somewhat familiar, but I 
couldn’t place it at first. A pair of sharp teeth poked from the tops of her 
large lips within her wide-open mouth. Then I saw the gills on her neck, and 
I knew. 

Pd last seen Tsarina Signet on the third floor. The half-high elf, half- 
naiad elite was the catalyst for the whole circus quest. When—if—I got 
down to the next floor, I still had a contract to fulfill. She was part of a 
third-party drama that used the production’s setting to create their show. It 
was Called Vengeance of the Daughter, and it involved some story involving 
high elves, naiads, and genocide. I was obligated to participate in the 
program when and if we ever made it down to that level. 

This robed creature depicted before me was also a half-naiad... a water 
nymph. A fairy-type creature that lived in the water. But instead of being 
half elf, it appeared this one was half human. This one didn’t have the same 
horns on her head as Tsarina, but even in glass form, I could see she was 
very similar. 

“Look,” Katia said. She reached down and broke away a piece of clear 
crystal, revealing a small, glass plate on the side of the fountain. The glass 
words were almost impossible to read, but when I examined it, the system 
happily read it for me. 

Ahh, an old, crystalized figure with a cryptic description. How very 
convenient for those of us who are wondering wif is going on with this 
storyline. 

When the glass wizard’s research facility was transmuted, 
everything within was also transformed, including what you see before 
you now. At the base of this display is a small plaque. If you squint 
really hard, you can make out the faded words. It reads: 

Lika, my love. 

My sun and stars. My wife. M’lady, I will move the heavens so we can 
be together. I will burn and bury and destroy any who try to stop our love. 

“Well that’s ominous,” Katia said. 

Mongo leaned over to sniff at the statue. What had once been water was 
made of the clean, translucent glass. The statue itself was made of the same 
dirty-looking, multicolored glass that composed everything else in the 
castle. The whole thing wobbled when he sniffed, surprising him. The 


dinosaur screeched at the statue, scrambling back. We all hopped back as it 
toppled over and shattered. The sound was like a gunshot in the large room. 

“Whoops,” I said. 

The shattered glass mostly turned to dust. The glass head of the naiad 
remained mostly intact, though part of her chin was now chipped. I took the 
head into my inventory along with a few of the larger, intact pieces of glass, 
which the inventory called fulgurite. For the head, the description read: 

Decapitated glass head depicting Lika from Troubadour’s Bounty. 

It’s sticky. 

Before I could figure out what in the hell that meant, I received a 
message. 

Gwen: Hey bomber guy. I’m trusting you’re not dead yet. Tran 
reports that your hunch was correct. The electric line perfectly matches 
up with the wheel and the contact at the bottom of the tower. 

Carl: Okay. Have him hook it up to the wheel, but not the tower. 
Then have him stand by in case I need him to attach it. 

Gwen: If lightning hits it, it might, you know, electrically open up 
the release valve. You probably don’t want that happening while you’re 
standing in the castle. Itd be like stepping in front of one of those 
trains from the last floor. 

Carl: Yeah, I am aware. So please don’t connect it unless I ask. 

The valve opened when you physically turned it. I suspected 
electrifying the metal valve actually did something else, but I wasn’t certain 
just yet. I hoped we wouldn’t have to test it while we were standing in the 
middle of the castle. 

Gwen: All right. You are a crazy fucker. I’ll give you that. But you 
guys better hurry. 

“Come on,” I said to the others. “Let’s keep moving.” 

We explored the remaining rooms on the first level of the castle, but 
they were all empty. There were paintings and furniture made of glass, but I 
couldn’t tell what they’d once been, and the furniture turned to dust or 
broke into pieces when I tried to dislodge it from the floor. The paintings 
were nothing but squares on the walls. 

We went up the stairs, and it was more of the same. There was a table 
full of potions. I touched one, and it also turned to fine dust that swirled up 
in the air. I covered my mouth and backed away, afraid to breathe it in. It 
was finally dawning on me that there might be a way to turn all of this back, 


and we were destroying potential loot. Outside, we could hear the 
sandstorm blowing loudly through the walls. Lightning continued to crash. 

“Let’s stop touching shit and get this rolling,” I said. 

“Agreed,” Katia said. 

We moved to the basement. The ceiling here was low. It was only a few 
inches over my head, adding to the sense of claustrophobia. Katia had to 
widen her hips and lower her height to continue. At the base of the stairs 
was a small, round room with a large, wooden door against the far wall. The 
door was wide and went all the way to the low ceiling. It wasn’t made of 
glass or sand, and it wasn’t magical. It was just a regular door, and it was 
the first non-glass item we’d seen since coming in here. I paused, 
examining it for traps. Flashing light streamed from underneath the door. 

This was obviously the boss chamber for the castle. 

“It looks like it’s just one big room on the other side,” Katia said. 
“There’s just one small room beyond that, and it’s the level stairwell.” 

“T see the stairwell,” I said. Now that I was on the same level as the exit, 
it finally populated into my map. 

“I don’t see any monsters,” Donut added. “Nothing. But I hear voices.” 

“Peeping Tom,” I whispered. 

“We decided to call it Peeping Mongo, remember?” Donut said. 

“Just do it. Turn the light off first.” 

The torch snapped off, and a small hole materialized in the door. I 
waited a moment and then peered inside. I couldn’t see much. The ceiling 
wasn’t any higher in this room. There were piles of books and magazines 
lying about along with several smaller statues on a display case. None of 
the items other than the walls and ceiling were made of glass, though I 
could see the floor was covered in sand, as if the room was built atop a 
beach. There also appeared to be several piles of clutter strewn about the 
room. Most of it was clothes. There was an odd mix of black and pink 
clothing spread everywhere, though all of it was on tables. The mess wasn’t 
as bad as the Hoarder’s chamber on the first floor, but an awful stench 
permeated through the hole. 

I couldn’t see the source of the flashing light. If I didn’t know any 
better, Pd guess it was from a television. Or a videogame. Same with the 
sounds. 

I took a step back. “Abort,” I whispered. 


“What’s wrong?” Donut asked, also whispering. She was about to cast 
Clockwork Triplicate on Mongo, which would make the two dinosaurs 
appear within the room. But I couldn’t shake the feeling if we straight-up 
attacked whatever was in there, we’d miss out on learning what was going 
on. 

“Change of plans. Look through the hole and use your Astral Paw spell 
to knock a pile of magazines or something over. I want to see if anything in 
there reacts. Sometimes we can get the boss to show itself before we get 
ourselves locked in there with it.” 

“We don’t call moves if we’re going to abort the move, Carl,” Donut 
grumbled. “That’s the reason why we have a system in the first place. So 
we don’t have to think about it.” 

Donut leaped to my shoulder to get a good view through the hole. 

I patted her on the head. “We call it ‘Peeping Tom’ so I can look 
through the hole first and see if the clockwork Mongos are necessary. That’s 
the point of the name.” 

“Peeping Mongo. Really, Carl. If you’re going to get the names wrong 
we’re going to need to spend an extra half an hour a day training with the 
move system, and that’s going to conflict with my brushing schedule. It’s 
not that difficult to remember. Katia always remembers the names.” Before 
I could say anything, she peered through the hole. She made a face. “Oh 
my, this mage is quite messy. It smells like old chicken and stale vegetables. 
The sand on the ground is really cold. He’s watching television. I don’t 
recognize the show, but it sounds like a cartoon. Okay. I’m going to knock 
over a pile of magazines.” She pulled back from the hole. “I did it. 
Honestly, I don’t know how it’ll make a difference. You never noticed when 
I knocked stuff over.” 

“I noticed. I was just used to it.” I returned my eye to the magical 
peephole. The unseen show had paused, and silence filled the chamber. I 
couldn’t see what Donut had done. I didn’t see anything on the sandy floor. 

“Is someone there?” a voice called. 

The moment the voice spoke, a single white dot appeared on my 
minimap, just to the side of where I could see. A person appeared, shuffling 
through the large room. This was a human male wearing what appeared to 
be a bathrobe. For one confusing second, my brain thought this was Louis, 
but of course that didn’t make sense. This was an unkempt, overweight, 20- 
something guy with long, stringy hair. He moved to the middle of the room 


and looked down at the sand. He grumbled something I couldn’t hear, and 
turned back toward the television. Before he could leave my field of view, I 
examined him. 

Ghazi — Human. Level 43 Glass Mage 

Known by most everyone in the area as The Mad Dune mage, Ghazi 
came to the area for the same reason as the bugbear submarine 
captain, Shamus Chaindrive: to seek out the hidden treasure that is 
said to be buried within the Necropolis of Anser. 

As a glass mage who specializes in the study of both transmutation 
and the teleportation of energized particles, Ghazi told his colleagues at 
the Larracos College of Magecraft that he was seeking out the Gate of 
the Feral Gods to study its potential use in stable, long-distance 
teleportation. 

This was, in fact, a lie. 

His real purpose in seeking out the fabled artifact was for reliable, 
controlled access to the Nothing in order to converse with Yarilo, the 
banished god of Lust. He sought but a simple boon in exchange for 
freeing the god. 

Ghazi wished for Yarilo to make the famed Lika fall in love with 
him. 

Lika is a half-naiad trobairitz. A trobairitz is a bard cleric who has 
taken a vow of celibacy. She is also the fictional main character of a 
popular series of stage plays that are often performed in the Larracos 
theater district. She was never real, and is very loosely based on a 
minor deity. She has been portrayed by dozens of half-naiad thespians 
over the years. 

In other words, Ghazi was trying to summon a god in order to turn 
his waifu into the real deal. 

Funny thing about summoning creatures from within the Nothing. 
They’re all crazy. They all want out. Some of them are very good at 
pretending they’re somebody they are not. 

Yadda, yadda, yadda. The entity Ghazi summoned is not Yarilo. 
And now the glass mage is trapped in his now-transformed castle, 
cursed with the knowledge of what he’s done and what he’s unleashed 
onto the world. 

He has an escape. He is too much of a coward to do it. But there is 
one thing that will throw him over the edge. You probably don’t want 


that to happen. 

“Shit. It’s just a dude,” I whispered. “He’s not made of sand or anything 
like that. It says his wife isn’t real. It doesn’t make sense. He’s like a 
neckbeard who tried to cast a spell making a fictional chick fall in love with 
him.” 

“Tt’s just like with Louis and Juice Box,” Donut said. “But at least Juice 
Box is real. Well, sort of. She was doing a Wonder Woman impersonation 
before our time out, and believe it or not, I thought...” 

“Shell!” Katia cried as I felt myself fly back from the door. Donut 
leaped away, calling for Mongo to follow just as my back slammed the 
stairs. I didn’t know what was happening, but I banged onto Protective 
Shell just as Donut’s Wall of Fire burst up inside the room 

The door exploded the moment I cast my spell, which didn’t make 
much sense. The diameter of the protective shell burst deep into the room, 
beyond the level of the door. It shouldn’t have detonated. 

The fire spell immediately caught the piles of books and tables aflame. 

“Hey, hey!” came the shout from within the room. Ghazi ran into view. 
He ran through the wall of the protective shell, looking around frantically. 
The wall of fire had trapped him on this side of the flames. His eyes got 
huge when he saw us staring back at him. 

His dot is still white. The spell won t protect us. 

It was Katia who had pulled me back from the door. But why? What had 
happened? 

And then I saw it. The sand on the ground was all pushed back, 
revealing a glass floor, as if I had thrust it away with a broom. The 
protective shell had tossed it back with the casting of my spell. Suddenly 
the entire room was red on my map. 

The sand is a mob. The floor is a monster. 

“Keep the spell going!” Ghazi yelled, rushing toward us. 

I stood. Mongo screeched, ready to attack. 

“Hold Mongo back,” I yelled to Donut. “The spell is going to run out in 
a few seconds,” I said to the fleeing mage. 

The man looked over his shoulder at the flames. He spied something on 
a table in the room, just at the edge of the protective shell. The table itself 
was on fire. The bathrobe man cursed. He returned to the room, grabbed the 
item—a leather bag—and then returned toward us. The spell was going to 


run out in five seconds. The bag was on fire. He threw it down, patted the 
flames out and then scooped it up, holding it against his chest. 

“Go up the stairs! It won’t follow up the stairs!” Ghazi wheezed. 

I made a quick decision. 

“Do you have the winding box? The college needs it to save the world!” 

The man looked at me incredulously. 

The spell snapped off. The sand started pushing toward us, moving 
quickly, bubbling like gray lava. It’s a slime, I realized. The floor of the 
room wasn’t covered with regular sand. The room was covered entirely by a 
slime, and for some inexplicable reason, the mage guy was living on top of 
it. 

“Answer him, you fool!” Donut demanded. 

“It’s here,” Ghazi said, patting the bag. “I knew the council wouldn’t 
abandon me. I...” 

I punched the mage in the face, and I took the bag. The man collapsed, 
but Katia reached out and caught him. She threw him over her shoulder. We 
turned, and we ran up the stairs as the sand slime oozed toward us. 


“That was unexpected,” Donut said. Mongo screeched uncertainly, sniffing 
down into the darkness. Despite the man’s proclamation, I could see that the 
slime or ooze or whatever was slowly inching its way up the stairs. It’d take 
a while for it to get to us, but it was coming. 

We stood at the top of the landing. Katia placed the unconscious man on 
the ground. He’d wake up in 90 seconds. I hadn’t formed my gauntlet, but 
the punch had knocked him out cold. His health bar had gone down by 
2/3’s. His dot remained white. 

“College? Where did that come from?” Katia asked. 

“Examine him,” I said. 

“Oh,” she said after a moment. “He’s from Larracos. That’s the big city 
on the ninth floor, right?” 

“That’s right,” I said. “The dude came here so his fictional girlfriend 
could be turned real.” 

Donut scoffed. “Can you imagine? You’re a famous, beautiful 
adventurer and suddenly you’re in some smelly scientist guy’s basement? 


Just bringing them to life isn’t enough. You’d have to make them like you. 
And let me tell you, if you’re the type of guy who is living in a putrid cellar 
trying to bring fictional people to life, making them like you is a tall order. 
It’s weird, and it’s creepy.” 

“So what happened down there?” I asked Katia as I opened up the 
leather satchel. 

“While you were looking through the peephole, the sand started oozing 
through the bottom of the door. It was moving its way up the wood when I 
noticed it. You cast the shell, and it pushed it back, blasting the door to 
pieces.” 

“If we actually went into the room, it’d probably have triggered a boss 
battle,” I said. “It’s almost identical to what happened in the air castle. 
There’s a boss and an NPC.” 

I peered into the bag. There were two objects within. Letter from the 
Council and Mysterious Box. 

I examined the winding box. It was a thick, wooden case with a glass 
window. It was heavier than it appeared it should be, and the dark wood of 
the box felt old. It reminded me of a humidor or a large music box. Inside 
were two little knobs and two round cutouts, one for each watch. I wasn’t 
exactly certain how these things worked. You placed the watch inside, 
turned it on, and it spun the watch, which somehow kept it ready to go. Or 
something. 

Mysterious Winding Box. 

This strange box hums with arcane power. There is space for two 
watches. What happens if you place the watches within and activate the 
box? You should try to find out! 

I knew this guy had figured out how to get the thing to half work 
without the watches, so I didn’t want to mess with it. I placed it into my 
inventory. The last watch remained inside the necropolis somewhere in the 
hands of Juice Box’s brother, Henrik. We should have taken it from him 
when we had the chance. 

I examined the letter. Donut read it from over my shoulder, gasping 
when she read the last part. When I was done, I handed it to Katia. 

Ghazi, 

We received your correspondence with no little amount of alarm. 
Upon looking up the creature you described, we have determined she is 
a banished lesser deity named Psamathe. She is the only of the listed 


banished who is accompanied by the ooze familiar you describe. 
Happily, your ineptitude whilst summoning the creature may be our 
saving grace. 

The scholars believe your failure made it so she was only corporeal 
long enough to gain a foothold, and the behavior you describe suggests 
she has not fully passed over. She will seek the most powerful sub- 
conscious entity in the vicinity and will occupy the creature. 
Thankfully, because of her non-physical form, she will only be able to 
occupy a creature equally between worlds. And it is clear who that will 
be considering your location. 

So in summary, the council believes Psamathe duped you. She 
pretended to be this Yarilo you so foolishly attempted to resurrect. She 
then likely took control of the ghost that is known to haunt the 
necropolis. Queen Quetzalcoatlus. 

You only have one choice. You must use the winding box to banish 
yourself and the entirety of the necropolis into the Nothing. You must 
not let Quetzalcoatlus gain corporeal form. If it were to happen, 
Psamathe will be fully resurrected, and the true gods would be forced 
to react. That would bring a level of chaos and death not seen for an 
age. 

Your failure has caused your name to be removed from the Tome of 
Scholars. 

May the gods have mercy on your soul. 

It was signed by a group of twelve different names. 

Below the letter, written in a different script was an additional note. 

Ghazi you fucking idiot. I told you this was going to happen. The 
second I found you with that thing, I knew you were beyond saving. 
You have ruined everything. I hope it was worth it. Scolopendra will 
never be defeated now. We needed that artifact, and all you could think 
about was your cock. I will never forgive you. I was here the whole 
time, but I guess I wasn’t enough. Fuck you. I hope you die in pain. Do 
the right thing. 

- Tish. 

Jesus, I thought. If the changelings had managed to turn that ghost back 
into a physical creature, it would’ve been game over one way or another. 
Either the ghost would’ve gotten out of the necropolis or Ghazi here 
would’ve binned the whole bubble using his winding box. 


“This is distressing,” Donut said. “He had Tish all along, and he left her 
so he could pursue a fictional woman? I am appalled. This is just 
outrageous.” 

I grunted. “Donut, we don’t know anything about the story except what 
the description and the letter says. You’re reading too much into it. The 
important part is if Quetzel however you pronounce it gets out of the 
necropolis, yet another goddamn god is probably going to show up and 
splatter everyone in the area. But more importantly, it also confirms we can 
use this winding box as a weapon. And the artifact can be somehow used 
against the final boss.” 

“Maybe,” Katia said. “Or they just wanted to use it to run away.” 

“You’re not from the council,” Ghazi said, sitting up. The large mage’s 
robe opened to reveal a massive chest tattoo of Lika. He put a hand to his 
head. “You punched me really hard.” 

“How could you?” Donut demanded, jumping on the NPC’s chest. He 
started to scramble back, surprised at the cat’s vehemence. Donut hissed 
and spit. 

“What? How could I what?” 

“You had Tish all along, and you left her for Lika! And she’s not even 
real! Look what happened!” 

The man’s eyes got huge. “Tish? So you are from the college? How did 
you get in here?” 

We had approximately one hour before the sandstorm ended. When that 
happened, the glass halls would collapse and turn to sand, burying us. We 
didn’t have time for this drama bullshit. 

I grasped the confused mage by his bathrobe. “Okay, I am going to ask 
you a series of questions, and you are going to answer them. Do you 
understand?” 

“What is going on? What do you want?” 

“What is that thing down there? And how do we kill it?” 

“It’s... killing it won’t matter. I’ve killed it a dozen times. It just comes 
right back.” 

“What is it?” 

“She... it. It’s a sand ooze. The familiar of Psamathe. Psamathe is not a 
god, but a lesser deity. She, uh, escaped during my research. As long as 
Psamathe is in this world, the ooze can be recreated by a single grain of 
sand, so it is impossible to kill it fully. You can burn it away, and freeze it, 


or dilute it. Or shock it with electricity. It shrinks, but it never dies. To 
remove it, you’d have to remove all the sand from the world.” 

Damnit, I thought. We should’ve brought that electrical line in with us. 

“Okay, why is it in the room with you?” 

“Are you guys going to tell me who you are?” 

“No. Answer the questions. If I get even the hint of a spell being cast, 
that dinosaur behind you is going to bite your head off. I’ve seen him do it. 
Do you understand? Now why is the slime in the room with you?” 

“She’s... she’s my wife, and I think she’s in love with me.” 

“Your wife? The slime is your wife?” 

“Tt’s an ooze. Not a slime. There’s a difference. And yes, the ooze is my 
wife.” 

Donut made a disgusted noise. “If Tish could see you now.” 

“Yeah, you’re gonna have to elaborate. But make it quick.” 

Ghazi looked back and forth between me and Donut, obviously 
bewildered. He focused on Katia, who stood at the edge of the stairwell, 
keeping an eye on the encroaching ooze. She shook her head, telling the 
man she wasn’t going to help him. 

“Look,” I said. “Let me speed this up. We know you came here to 
summon the lust god and have him turn some lady from a play into your sex 
slave. And you got tricked into summoning this Psamathe creature instead. 
And now Psamathe is inside the necropolis, hitching a ride within the body 
of that pterodactyl ghost. That seems to be the theme of this whole damn 
bubble. We know if she gets out, the gods who are now in charge might take 
issue with that. We also know that winding box I just stole from you can be 
used to suck all of this away, but you haven’t done it yet. And now you’re 
never going to get the chance because I have it, and I am not going to give 
it back. Right now, I don’t care about any of that. I just want to know 
everything I can about that ooze that is coming up the stairs, because I need 
to get rid of it long enough for me to occupy that small room in the back of 
your chamber. And I need to do it before the sandstorm outside ends.” 

The man looked at me, open-mouthed. 

“This is where you speak,” Donut prodded. 

“Tt’s halfway up the stairs,” Katia called. 

“Okay, okay. Lika isn’t just some lady from a play. She’s real. I wasn’t 
turning her into a sex slave. I brought her with me. It’s not like the others 
say. She’s trapped, frozen in her body. She speaks to me. She’s the one who 


told me to come here and do this. I’m trying to save her. Tish didn’t 
understand. Nobody understands. When I thought I’d summoned Yarilo, he 
made Lika real. He told me that I had to marry her for the magic to keep her 
alive, so I did. Right away. He performed the ceremony right then and there. 
It was only after the consummation did I leave the chamber and find that 
Lika was still in her cleaning pod. The entire castle had been crystalized 
when I used the spell to summon Yarilo, but it hadn’t been enough power.” 
He paused, suddenly sad. “I screwed it up, like I screw everything up. But 
that’s how I knew I had been tricked. Lika hadn’t been saved at all. She was 
still there, crystalized like everything else. And everything outside my 
protection spell was turned to sand. The deity Pd summoned made me a 
wife, but it was a wife of sand. That is why the ooze remains nearby. After 
consummation, it fell in love with me.” 

“Uh, Carl, does ‘consummation’ mean what I think it means?” Donut 
asked. 

Again, we were getting off track, but I now had more questions than 
when we’d started. “You banged the ooze?” I asked. “And you didn’t notice 
it wasn’t really the chick you have tattooed on your own damn chest?” 

“I was drunk,” he said sheepishly. “And really excited. Plus it was 
dark.” 

“Does it talk?” I asked. 

“Well, no. She takes the form of Lika when the sandstorm isn’t raging 
outside. When the storm starts, she... it returns to ooze form, but I turn to 
sand. You see, it required a lot of power to... you know what, it’s not 
important. I only return to my human form during the sandstorm, but she is 
in her Lika form the rest of the time, so the only real quality time we’ve 
spent together was right after the wedding. She remains buried in the castle, 
and she consumes me. Every day. She eats me while I am made of sand. 
That’s how oozes tell you they love you.” He shuddered. 

“What the fuck,” I whispered. 

“So that’s why you keep trying to kill her?” Donut asked. 

“A marriage built on lies can never last,” he said. “But I gave up trying 
to burn her away a long time ago. Now I just live with it. As long as her 
master remains in the necropolis, we are fine. I don’t age. I have this 
amazing magical panel with thousands of hours of programs on it, and I 
don’t know where it came from. But it keeps me entertained. I can only 
watch for two hours a day except during the red equinox, which is coming 


up soon. There’s this program called Inuyasha that I plan on finishing... 
Anyway, the ooze doesn’t allow me to leave the room very often. It’s 
jealous of the real Lika.” 

“Real Lika,” Donut grumbled under her breath. 

“Wait a second,” Katia said, interrupting. “When you say you found 
Lika in her cleaning pod, what do you mean by that?” 

Ghazi chinned toward the large chamber behind us. “She’s there, in that 
room. But the room only appears during the storm, and that’s the only time 
I can leave the chamber. But my, uh, wife doesn’t usually let me leave. I’m 
working on a spell that’ll reverse what happened. The castle has been 
crystalized. I made a protection spell, but it didn’t work. It wasn’t big 
enough, and it wasn’t powerful enough. Most of the castle is sand, but some 
of the interior turns to crystal during the storm. Both me and my workroom 
return to their real form during the sandstorm, but that is it. Once I undo the 
spell, I will have Lika back and we’Il try again.” 

“How are you going to undo the spell if you spend all of your free time 
watching nerd cartoons?” Donut asked. 

“Uh, so she’s in the fountain?” I asked. I exchanged a look with Katia. 
“We saw her before. We thought she was a statue.” 

“She’s a personal companion device made in the likeness of Lika. But 
she is real. There is a soul trapped within her, and that is how I came to be 
here.” 

We’d all connected the dots, but Donut was the first to say it out loud. 
“Oh my god, she was a sex doll? You had a sex doll tell you to come here? 
And you stuck her in the fountain to... clean her? And that’s what...” 

“Ts in the fountain right now?” I interrupted. 

The shattered pieces of the apparently possessed Lika sex doll were 
scattered all over the other chamber’s floor, though I had the head in my 
inventory. We needed to keep this guy out of that room until we finished 
this. 

“Again, we’re getting off track,” I said. “Tell me how you killed your 
wife the last time you did it. I only need her dead for a few minutes, then 
we can get the hell out of here.” 


OceanofPDE:com 


[ 22 ] 


I PEERED DOWN THE STAIRS, AND I EXAMINED THE SLOW-MOVING OOZE. THE 
closer it got to the top, the slower it went. I realized the thinner it stretched 
itself, the more difficult it was for it to move. 

The thing looked like a god had sneezed over the stairwell, and the 
mucus pile had rolled in kitty litter. Some of the magazines that Donut had 
knocked off the table along with some other junk items from the lab were 
mixed in with the creature, hitching a ride up the stairs. 

The voice of the AI’s description of the ooze was different than usual. 
There were no stupid jokes thrown in there, and it seemed more morose 
than normal, which probably was the joke. I just didn’t get it. 

Mrs. Ghazi 

Sand Ooze 

Level 52 Borough Boss! 

This is a minion of Psamathe 

Every living creature seeks the same thing. A sense of contentment. 
No matter what their origin story is, no matter what they are made of, 
the moment they first exist, no matter how dumb, how smart, how 
confused, they seek a place of comfort. What that comfort looks like to 
them can vary wildly, even amongst creatures of the same species. 
Oftentimes, that journey to felicity is what defines their entire lifecycle. 
When that creature crosses paths with another, it is inevitable that the 
weaker of the two will fall further away from their goal. 

This is the sort of thing that might go through Mrs. Ghazi’s mind as 
it spends its day watching over a man it has grown to love at the behest 
of someone more powerful than itself. The knowledge that the man’s 


feelings are not mutual is like a dagger in its heart, if it had one. It 
wrestles daily with this realization, teetering on the edge of indecision. 
Do I protect him because I love him? Do I kill him because he doesn’t 
love me back? Do I continue with my duty? What would become of me if I 
simply disobeyed? 

It’s a lot of stress for a creature not used to having any emotion. It’s 
almost too much. But even if this creature wanted to end it all, it 
couldn’t. Its master has the ability to bring it right back, over and over 
again. 

“I think the AI is smoking weed,” Katia said. 

“This tells us absolutely nothing new about the creature,” I said, 
irritated at the description. “Except that it’s a borough boss. But the music 
didn’t start.” 

“I think we broke it when we didn’t go into the room,” Katia said. 

“Are we sure it was actually talking about the ooze?” Donut asked. 

Killing the sand ooze, even temporarily, was going to be impossible 
from where we stood. Without a sufficient burst of electricity, I was going 
to need to burn it. And while I had plenty of materials to make an ooze 
scald hot enough to shrink it away, we’d screwed ourselves by running up 
the stairs. 

According to Ghazi, I had to drop the fire on the ooze’s core, which was 
always kept in the same place: directly under the recliner that sat in front of 
the flatscreen television nestled in the corner of the room. 

We couldn’t use regular fire, either. We could tell that the ooze had 
already snuffed out the flames leftover from Donut’s spell, so the creature 
wasn’t completely fire averse. We needed something that’d burn hot. I had 
two boom jugs left, but I feared those would burn a little too hot. I had a 
better idea. Earlier, I prepared some of the “burn gel” at my crafting table. I 
had the recipe already from my cookbook. I’d forced a conversation a few 
days before that with Mordecai by telling him about how I used to set hand 
sanitizer on fire. He’d responded with a way to make a flammable gel that 
would burn better, longer, and hotter. We found when we used moonshine in 
conjunction with some paste he could easily put together, the resulting gel 
burned hot and bright with little smoke. It wasn’t too useful in combat 
situations because the stuff had the consistency of toothpaste and took a 
while to apply, but it would work here. I had a plastic shopping bag full of 


the gel in my inventory, already shoved into a funnel so I could apply it like 
a giant piping syringe for a cake decorator. 

The sand ooze had stretched itself almost all the way up the stairs. If I 
touched it, it would overwhelm me, dragging me down and suffocating me. 
So I had to somehow get all the way down the stairs, around the corner, into 
the room and to the core without it touching me. 

Donut’s puddle jumper wouldn’t work, not without an egress or suitable 
place to land. Same with just tossing Molotov cocktails. The most obvious 
solution was indeed to burn our way there. If we flamed our way toward the 
core with fire that was hot enough to do damage, it would constantly shrink 
until we were close enough to hit the core. 

We didn’t have time for that. 

A further wrinkle was that Ghazi said I could absolutely not use 
explosives. Especially not in the basement level, especially not in his lab. 
Ghazi insisted that a big boom would crack the walls, and the entire glass 
interior would collapse. We’d find ourselves buried. 

That left only one quick, feasible solution. We use Donut’s Hole spell to 
drop the fire onto the core from the level above. About four feet of sand 
separated the bottom glass floor and the top of the basement level. Her spell 
could reach that far thanks to her glass cannon class, but only barely. The 
problem was that Ghazi’s workshop wasn’t lined up correctly with the floor 
above it. We’d have to go into the large room where we’d accidentally 
destroyed the crystalized sex doll, move all the way to the comer, and that 
would overlap with the edge of the basement. The wrong edge of the 
basement. So we could make a hole into the chamber, but we’d still be 
thirty feet away. 

We worked the problem, brainstorming different solutions. Katia didn’t 
have enough mass to stretch herself that far. I could probably pop into the 
hole and use the xistera to upside-down toss something at the core. Same 
with a few Molotovs. But I feared it wouldn’t be enough. 

I needed to move the recliner out of the way, liberally douse the core 
with the fire gel, set it aflame, and do it without getting captured and 
suffocated by the ooze. 

Mordecai had been particularly alarmed when I told him what the 
monster was. 

Mordecai: Do not let it touch you. Once they get ahold, it’s like 
quicksand you can’t escape. And since you already used your Protective 


Shell, you’d be fucked. They don’t just suffocate you. It will actively 
pour sand into every available orifice, filling you until you explode. 
And since you’re only wearing boxers with relatively easy access to 
your... southern entrance... Yeah. Don’t let it get you. 

Carl: Christ, Mordecai. You always make horrible things seem even 
more horrible. 

Mordecai: That’s my job, kid. Have you been keeping your hair 
short? 

Carl: Yeah. Katia cut it for me the other day. I don’t think it grew 
while we were away. 

In the end, we went with my least favorite idea. I’d already come up 
with it, but I was saving it as a last resort. Donut suggested it out loud. 

With all of my equipment buffs but before my daily buffs, my dexterity 
currently sat at 32. Pd mostly been spamming my strength and constitution 
stats, though I had managed to throw a few points into my dex here and 
there. I wished I’d thrown more. 

Thanks to my newest toe ring, I had an ability called Sticky Feet. It 
allowed me to walk along the ceiling for my dexterity times two seconds 
once every six hours. I’d practiced it a few times, but not yet in combat. 
That was about to change. 

Carl: How do these things sense people? Will it know I’m hanging 
upside down over it? 

Mordecai: It will absolutely know if you don’t distract it. Oozes 
hunt by vibration and sound. Not heat like slimes, which is good. But 
you clomping on the ceiling will still be enough to gain its attention, so 
you’ll have to use one of those things you were building earlier. 

Donut: CAN IT SMELL? CARL STARTED GETTING ALL 
SWEATY WHEN WE DECIDED HE WAS GOING IN UPSIDE 
DOWN. 

Mordecai: Normal sand oozes can’t smell. But again, this might not 
be a normal one, so be careful. 

Carl: The thing is named Mrs. Ghazi, and it’s in love with a human. 
I’m pretty certain this isn’t a normal ooze. 

Mordecai: Probably not. Speaking of the mage, I wouldn’t trust a 
guy who fucked an ooze. Katia, keep an eye on him, especially when 
Carl is in that chamber. 


Carl: I don’t trust him either. He didn’t seem too upset when I stole 
the winding box. 

Katia: I have my Crowd Blast ability cocked and loaded. If he tries 
anything, he’ll be splattered like a bug against a windshield. 


Donut and I posted up in the comer of the fountain room while Katia 
remained at the top of the stairs with Ghazi. The ooze was just about to get 
to the top step, and she was going to slowly back away as it approached. 

Pd already given Katia the device. I’d earlier made five of these at my 
sapper’s table, each one labeled with a different purpose. Since I’d put them 
together at the table, I’d actually been able to pick the song. This one was 
simply labeled, “Bass heavy. For distraction.” It was a hollow banger 
sphere with an impact-detonated alarm trap inside of it. It’d taken me less 
than three minutes to make the whole lot. I’d quickly chosen the songs from 
memory. 

“You’re up!” I yelled to Katia from the next room. 

“Here we go,” she called back. 

A moment passed, and the announcement came. 

Peaking at Number 2 on October 10t}, 1992, it’s, “Jump Around!” 

The music wasn’t as booming as usual because the alarm module had 
been sealed inside a metal ball. Still, the incredibly-loud, bass-heavy tune 
blared enough to shake the walls, drowning out all other sounds. Katia had 
just lobbed the ball down the stairs. I was afraid the ooze would 
immediately snuff it out, but the ball appeared to protect the trap 
mechanism. 

Katia: Oh wow. The ball is bouncing up and down on its own with 
the beat. The ooze keeps trying to grab it, but it’s slipping away. 

Donut: IS THIS SERIOUSLY THE ONLY BASS-HEAVY SONG 
YOU COULD THINK OF? WHAT ABOUT LIL PUMP? 

Carl: Make the goddamn hole. 

Donut: THE BASS ISN’T EVEN THAT HEAVY. IT’S JUST 
BOUNCY. 

Carl: Goddamnit, Donut. We’re on the clock. 


Donut appeared to sigh and then cast the spell. We peered down into the 
cavity, looking into the scorched room below. The place was a mess. The 
body of the ooze was stretched taut, like sandy bubble gum. The television 
had somehow unpaused itself, and it played a scene from some anime, 
filling the chamber with a frenetic rainbow of ever-changing colors. I 
couldn’t hear it. The ooze spread to all corners of the room. 

The small, glowing doorway stood next to the television. The level 
stairwell room. If it wasn’t glowing, it’d look like the entrance to a utility 
closet or something equally innocuous. Once we took care of the boss, we’d 
have access to the room. 

I could see the set up for the boss battle that had never happened. There 
were multiple tables of various heights throughout the room, though most 
were now wrecked. I would’ve had to jump from table to table and then 
figure out where the core was. Mordecai had said to look for the yolk-like 
dome in the ooze. I could see it now, exactly where Ghazi said it would be. 
The yellow glow emanated from under the chair near the door to the level 
stairwell. 

I lowered myself into the hole. Getting my feet to touch the bare ceiling 
wasn’t exactly the easiest thing to do when you were coming in from above. 
I wanted to keep Katia—who could’ve easily lowered me—posted at the 
stairwell, so I’d quickly fashioned a rope system. 

Carl: Don’t let this slide. 

I didn’t trust anything in the room made of glass to anchor me, so I 
pulled the heaviest chunk of metal I had in my inventory and gently placed 
it on the ground. It was a piece of dwarven automaton, and even though 
dwarven metal was lighter than steel, this thing had to weigh at least a half 
ton. It was about the size of a forklift and was covered with lots of jagged, 
uneven, sharp pieces of broken metal. I’d been saving it to throw at 
something or to drop if we had to make a fast getaway. It was one of those 
things that I wouldn’t be able to even budge before, but now that my 
strength clocked in at 80, I could lift it with no problems. I tied the rope to a 
curved, solid rivet. It’d hold my weight easily. 

I lowered myself upside down into the hole, entering the chamber of the 
ooze, spiderman-style. No boss music started. There was no announcement. 
The ceiling of the chamber was low, meaning when I was attached to the 
roof, my head would only be an inch or two above the top of Mrs. Ghazi. If 
it sensed me, it’d surge up and drag me face-first into the sand. 


I lowered myself enough, placed my bare foot onto the ceiling, and I 
prepared the sticky feet special ability. The moment it activated, I’d have 
70-something seconds.. 

The song ended and then started right back up again. It would go on 
forever. 

Carl: Pm going to activate my spell in five seconds. Send in the 
bozos. Donut, maybe you should put Mongo away after you make the 
clockworks. I don’t want him accidentally getting into the sand. 

Katia: Here they come. 

I activated the ability, and my feet stuck to the ceiling. I let go of the 
rope, and I dangled free as the countdown timer began. This was much 
different than the Reverse Gravity spell. That one made me actually feel 
like the world was upside down. Here, I was just glued to the ceiling, like I 
was wearing those ridiculous, ab-killing gravity boots. I had to shuffle walk. 
If both of my feet left the ceiling at the same time, I would fall. 

Outside the door, I heard the distinctive twin shrieks—even over the 
music—of the clockwork mongos as they jumped down the stairs and into 
certain death. I knew Katia was starting to throw random crap from her 
inventory at the monster, all in an attempt to distract it. I turned toward the 
recliner in the corner, and I started to gingerly walk toward it. 

I had multiple, passive, low-tier stealth movement abilities that never 
worked for shit because I traveled with a dinosaur and a talking cat, but I 
hoped it would help cover my passage now. 

I shuffled quickly across the ceiling, dodging tables and other debris 
without incident, coming to the spot next to the recliner. I had to hunch over 
to get myself directly over it. 

I needed to make a choice here. I could grab the recliner and stick it into 
my inventory, which would certainly alert the ooze, or I could pour the gel 
directly onto the chair and set that on fire, which would probably work just 
fine. That gel burned hot and was next to impossible to put out. 

I had thirty seconds. I went with the set-the-chair-on-fire method. I 
pulled the gel dispenser from my inventory and started to squeeze the thick, 
cloudy gel directly onto the chair. 

Donut: IT’S MOVING! CARL, IT’S MOVING! I CAN’T STOP 
IT! 

Carl: What’s moving? 

Donut: THE METAL CHUNK THING! 


I looked over my shoulder to see a line of ooze had somehow 
discovered the rope that’d been dangling a foot off the ground and through 
the hole. It’d reached up and grasped it and was now yanking on the rope. 
The metal was significantly larger than the hole, so it didn’t really matter, 
but that had been my escape route. It also showed how terrifyingly strong 
the ooze was. 

Carl: It’s okay. Turn off the hole. Make a new one next to it right 
away. I’m setting the chair on fire now and will make a run for it. 

I pulled a torch from inventory, lit it, and dropped it on the chair that sat 
atop the core. I turned and started scrambling away as an orgy of flames 
burst forth, burning white hot, filling the corner of the room with more 
flames and heat than I expected. 

Oh shit. 

I suppressed a cry of pain. Even as I scrambled away, the heat caused 
damage. The back of my head felt like itd been dipped in lava. My 
stomach started to burn with the effort as I upside-down crab-walked across 
the ceiling like something out of a goddamn horror movie. 

The ooze immediately reacted. The whole room vibrated. The sand 
rippled. The flaming chair went flying straight up like a rocket, and it 
slammed into the low ceiling right where I’d just been standing. It shattered 
into flaming hunks and fell upon the now-exposed, yolk-like core, 
spreading the gel everywhere. 

Yes, I thought. 

The ground of the whole room rose, like it was filling with sand. It 
folded upon itself, trying to snuff the flames, but they wouldn’t go out. 
Even buried, I could see the glowing, sparking fire. 

Katia: It’s retracting! 

A health bar appeared floating over the core, and it started to fall. It let 
go of the rope, which fell on its own as Donut closed the hole. The monster 
pulled further in on itself, piling into the corner and blocking the door to the 
stairwell. It buried the television, which was rapidly melting in the heat, 
plunging the room into a murky, half-lit darkness. The boss sparkled as the 
heat damaged it. The ooze started spinning, tendrils of gooey sand creating 
circles that caught brilliantly in the low light. It would be dead in seconds. 

And that’s when the roof of the chamber collapsed, and the room started 
to fill with sand. 


I’m not exactly certain what caused it. It was probably the heat. Or 
maybe it was the way the level was designed. The floor was engineered to 
collapse just as the ooze was about to die because fuck you. One moment I 
was running toward the new hole in the ceiling with five seconds left, and 
suddenly I was buried upside down in the sand, completely blind and 
unable to move. 

Donut: Carl! Carl! Help! I fell! There’s sand all around me! 

Oh fuck, this is it. I struggled to free myself, but I couldn’t move. The 
weight of the sand above me started to increase, pressing down, like I was 
buried in the bottom of an hourglass. Sand filled my mouth. I couldn’t 
breathe. I struggled more, but the only thing I could move was my toes. 

A notification appeared, quickly flashing by. The boss was defeated, 
and the quadrant was now open. 

Katia: Carl! Donut! Where are you! The stairwell just filled with 
sand! The walls are starting to crack and creak. I think it’s all going to 
collapse! Are you okay? 

I suddenly felt myself moving, rapidly sliding through the grit. I 
plopped unceremoniously onto the floor. I gasped for breath, coughing. It 
was Donut. She had bitten down onto my foot and dragged me free. 

“Thanks,” I coughed, spitting hot grains from my mouth. Donut’s torch 
lit up the tiny sliver of a space. I had barely enough room to stand. We were 
in the back corner of the basement. The roof had fallen in at an angle. It 
would’ve given us a ramp back up to the first level, but the ceiling of that 
chamber had also collapsed, and what had once been the ceiling between 
the first and second floor now stood precariously over our heads, bowing 
and creaking. To our right was the large chunk of dwarven metal, which 
helped shore up the ceiling. It had fallen through with Donut. If I pulled it 
back into my inventory now, we’d be immediately buried. 

We had three stories worth of sand over our head, and it was going to 
come crashing down at any moment. We were trapped. 

“The floor broke right after I cast my hole spell,” Donut said, out of 
breath. “I didn’t know it’d do that. Carl, what are we going to do? There’s 
nowhere to go!” 

“I think it was the heat,” I said. I tentatively reached up and touch the 
new ceiling. A crack splintered across it. “That gel burned hotter than I 
thought it would.” 

I sent a note to Katia, telling her where we were. 


Katia: I don’t know what to do. The whole place is about to 
collapse. The chamber where Donut was fell in, and Ghazi is flipping 
out about saving his love doll. He’s freaking out. I can’t tell if he’s 
crying or laughing. 

Gwen: Congrats. Now get out of there. The storm is almost over. 
The door just reappeared, but I don’t think it’s going to last long. It’s 
flickering! 

Carl: Katia, run for the door while you still can. Bring Ghazi. See if 
pulling him from the castle fixes the crystallization. 

Donut: Kill him! That’ll fix it! Mordecai says killing mages fixes 
most problems! 

Warning: Your oxygen levels are low. In case you’re wondering, yes, 
you do need that stuff. 

Shit, shit. We didn’t have time. 

Carl: We need him to explain the winding box. 

“We’re not going to need anything in a few seconds, Carl.” 

I sent a note to Gwen. 

Katia: Holy shit guys, I’m not going to leave you. Hang on. Pm 
going to dig. 

Carl: Listen. We need you to get him out of the castle. That’s how 
you fix it. Hurry. And do what Gwen says when you get out there. 

Katia: Okay. Okay. Pll tell you when I’m out. 

To our left, the wall broke, and more sand poured in. Donut jumped to 
my shoulder, trembling. We could still hear the music from the trap, but it 
was distant and pounding, buried nearby. The bouncing and pounding ball 
probably wasn’t doing us any favors. 

Well this turned out to be a real clusterfuck. 

“T don’t think taking the guy from the castle is going to work,” Donut 
said, panic rising in her voice. 

“No,” I agreed. “I just wanted her to get out of there.” 

“Carl, I don’t want to be buried alive.” 

Gwen: You mean electrify it, right? 

Carl: No. Hurry. 

“Donut, it’s going to be okay. How many water breathing scrolls do you 
have?” 

“They’re called water breathing, not sand breathing, Carl,” Donut said. 
“I didn’t get to say goodbye to Mongo! What’s going to happen to him? 


1? 


He’s just going to sit in his pet carrier forever 

“Goddamnit, how many scrolls?” I asked again. 

“Eight.” 

I also had eight. That was good. That would be enough. 

Katia: I’m out. 

Nothing had happened. I hadn’t expected it to. I suspected that I already 
knew how to de-crystalize the castle, and it was too late. We’d fucked it up. 
Id fucked it up. We should’ve brought that electrical line in. Damnit. 

Donut: Kill Ghazi. Quick! 

Carl: No. Wait! That’s not going to... 

Katia: Uh, I already did. We had a small fight. I looted a note from 
him that explains the winding box. But nothing changed with the castle. 
I think he’s dead. It said he was dead. His body turned to sand after I 
looted him. I’ve never seen that before. 

I swallowed. Above, the ceiling splintered. The chunk of metal shifted. 
Shit, shit, shit. 

Gwen: Hold onto your hats. Tran is opening the valve now. He’s 
only doing it part way, but itll be enough to blow your skirt up. 

“Take a water scroll,” I said. “Do it now. Put the rest in your hot list. 
Fast. If your health gets low, don’t take a health potion. Take Mordecai’s 
Special Brew.” 

“Carl, I changed my mind. I would rather be buried alive than...” 

I pulled Donut from my shoulder and wrapped myself around her, 
muffling whatever she was about to say. Above, the ceiling finally 
splintered, and sand poured over us as a distant, roaring sound filled the 
chamber, reminding me of the sound of an oncoming train. 


The world tumbled. It felt as if Pd been hit not by a train, but by a dozen 
baseball bats all at once. My health plummeted as I protected the fragile 
body of Donut. Complete darkness encompassed us. I spun like a ball, 
bouncing and hitting things both hard and soft and painfully inbetween. I 
closed my eyes. Let it happen. Let it happen. Be calm. I watched my health, 
and I clicked a potion just as it reached about 25%. My health moved up, 
and then I gasped with pain as I felt myself smash through what felt like a 


barbed-wire fence. Metal pierced my leg. A spear of glass pierced my hand 
and plummeted into Donut, who’d gone limp. She had not taken the 
invulnerability potion like I had suggested. Goddamnit, Donut. 

I targeted her and slammed on a heal scroll as we continued to spin. 

It’s not that bad. He only opened the valve a little bit. It’s like a water 
slide. 

I cast Heal on myself. I became aware that the thing that had pierced my 
leg was actually a spar of metal coming from that dwarven automaton 
piece. I cried anew as the metal pulled away. The metal chunk spun away 
into the murk. The temperature plunged, and I finally realized we were 
underwater in the water quadrant, and we had been for a bit now. 
Notifications flew past, and I spun and spun. 

I clutched onto Donut with all of my strength. I curled protectively 
around her the best I could. 

My health was, again, in the red. Donut’s health was also again 
perilously low. She’d gone unconscious. I could taste the blood streaming 
from her. We were no longer in the direct blast of the water current, and we 
were now sinking. It’d taken maybe three seconds from the water hitting us 
to this point, but itd seemed much longer. Donut’s torch was dutifully 
following us, barely keeping pace, barely lighting up the cloudy water. 

Mordecai: What is happening? Donut’s health keeps bottoming out! 

Carl: Not now. 

I used a second heal scroll on her, though she would remain 
unconscious for another thirty seconds. Thankfully she had taken the water 
breathing scroll, which lasted as long as one’s intelligence stat times three 
seconds. The scroll would be active for a total of over two and a half 
minutes for her. For me, it’d only last 54 seconds, and I was already getting 
close to needing to take another. 

I examined Donut as we continued to sink. Debris from both the castle 
and the interior of the necropolis plunged all around us. I caught sight of 
multiple dead bodies of creatures, but I couldn’t tell what they were in the 
dark. They all trailed dark blood, like airplanes smoking as they plummeted 
from the sky in slow motion. 

Donut looked okay. Her long hair flowed all around her, almost making 
her look like a sea anemone. With that last healing, she’d stopped bleeding. 
I turned the limp cat around in my hands, looking for injuries. She’d been 
pierced through the stomach by the shard, but she appeared to be okay now. 


I didn’t know if her cockroach spell had activated or not. Either way, it’d 
been much too close. If I hadn’t protected her, she’d been dead for certain. 

I became aware that the pressure of the water was getting higher. I 
panicked for a moment, suddenly not certain which way was up. I pumped 
my legs, and it didn’t feel as if I was going in the correct direction, which 
caused me to panic even further. It was dark on the surface, so I had no 
frame of reference. Calm. Calm. I remembered the little indicator in my 
vision that gave my position relative to sea level. We were only 150 meters 
below the surface. That was far. Very far. But it was much less than I 
anticipated. I was thankful for Donut’s torch spell and that it worked 
underwater, and I was especially thankful the spell still worked while she 
was unconscious. 

I pumped my legs a few times, and we quickly rose. I started to relax. I 
couldn’t tell how far we were from the shore, but that was okay. The 
quadrant wasn’t that wide. Just deep. 

I took a breath, and it felt like normal air. I hadn’t grown gills or 
anything weird. The water seemed to dissolve as it entered my mouth. 
Goddamn magic. 

I tried talking, and it worked. The words sounded odd to my ears, but I 
could hear myself. Above, I could hear the loud rush of water as it funneled 
out of the necropolis, across the beach, and back into the ocean. I could also 
hear something else, not too far away, but getting quieter. It was the trap 
module, still playing that song, sinking away with the rest of the debris. 

I had multiple, increasingly frantic messages from Katia and Mordecai, 
and I quickly answered them, telling them we were okay. 

The castle had washed away, much the same way a real sandcastle 
would under a garden hose. I’d hoped that since we were in the basement, 
we would’ve been spared getting plunged into the water quadrant, and the 
blast would’ ve just erased the castle away over our heads, stopping the sand 
from crushing us. No such luck, but at least we were still alive. I clicked on 
another water breathing scroll. 

Gwen: Hey, bomber guy. This is where I point out that if you’d 
simply let me open the valve in the first place, we could’ve avoided 
whatever the hell that was. 

Carl: And this is where I tell you to shut the fuck up. 

I was about to say something else when I sensed movement under me. 
Something large shot through the water. It crunched onto a falling body. 


The dull, box-like sound of munching bones was even more sinister in the 
darkness, like a large boot stomping through frozen snow. Whatever the 
thing was, it was big and long and cut through the water with ease. The dot 
appeared on my map, moving rapidly through the sinking corpses, zig- 
zagging. Holy shit, time to bounce. I pumped my legs again, pushing toward 
the surface. It’d probably been attracted to the blood. I needed to avoid 
bringing attention to myself, and I needed get the hell out of here as quickly 
and as quietly as I could. 

Donut awakened in my arms. 

Donut freaked the absolute fuck out. 


OceanofPDF.com 


OceanofPDF.com 


STAGE 4 OF 4. THE NECROPOLIS OF ANSER 


ONE MORNING, BACK WHEN BEA AND I FIRST MOVED IN TOGETHER, I 
decided to make pancakes. Bea was still asleep, and I thought it’d be a nice 
thing to do since she’d been doing most of the cooking. 

I was still getting used to the idea of sharing a home with a woman and 
a cat, and there was a lot I didn’t know. Even though I had known Donut 
since she was a kitten, I’d never actually lived with a cat before, and things 
like changing the litter box, not leaving the window open, and finding 
vomit on my pillow were all new. 

So I had a bowl of flour, a cup of milk, and a single egg sitting right 
there on the edge of the counter. I was foraging through the refrigerator, 
looking for the missing syrup container when suddenly there was a huge 
crash behind me. Donut had come out of nowhere, knocking the flour, milk, 
and egg off the counter, splattering everything onto the floor. She then 
turned to run, touched the very edge of the hot burner on the oven, yowled, 
rocketed into the air, and then landed on the floor, covering herself with a 
little bit of everything while she did that Scooby-Doo scramble in the 
slippery mess, everything flying everywhere while her legs pumped several 
times before she actually moved. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I’d cried, chasing after the cat as she squealed, 
running away into the living room, trailing it all onto the floor. She jumped 
up into her cat tree and started growling while she furiously licked at 
herself. 

Bea was going to lose her shit when she saw the cat, so I figured Pd 
mitigate the damage. 

Pd mitigate it by giving the cat a bath. 

After quickly cleaning up the kitchen, I went into the bathroom, and I 
turned the water on, filling the tub with several inches of warm, soapy 
water. And then I went to retrieve the cat. 

I picked her up, holding her with two hands while she squirmed. I went 
into the bathroom, I closed the door, and while holding her gently but 
firmly, I placed her in the bathtub. 

A few hours later while I sat in the emergency room waiting to get my 
hand, my arm, and my goddamned ear stitched up, I’d described, to the 
unimpressed nurse, the noise Donut had made the moment she’d entered the 


water. “Man, it was like a screeching, amplified baby combined with an 
outboard motor revving at a high rpm. I’m not even joking when I say it 
was one of the loudest, most terrifying things I’ve ever heard. Holy shit.” 

That memory came to me now in the moment Donut awakened from 
unconsciousness to find herself fully submerged in the water. 

This scream had a lot more power behind it than it did the last time. 

AHH AHH AHH RAWR AHHHHHHHHH, Donut squealed, twisting 
and turning and lashing out with her claws, like she was trapped in a 
dishwasher. I let her go after she almost caught my arm in her slash, and she 
started to sink like a rock, still twisting and fighting and going absolutely 
apeshit. 

“Donut,” I cried. “Donut. It’s okay!” 

Below, the shadow that was happily munching on the falling corpses 
paused. It started to lazily circle upward, vectoring itself toward our 
position, stopping to eat everything along the way. 

It’s the quadrant’s janitor mob. 

“Donut,” I called again. “Calm the fuck down!” 

Carl: Donut. Chill. You’re sinking. There’s a mob coming. 

Donut: AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH 

Carl: MONGO NEEDS YOU. 

Donut quit twisting, her hair fluttering around her. She quickly looked 
about, still in a panic. Strange lights flashed under the sunglasses that’d 
become a fixture on her face whenever she left the saferoom. She tried 
kicking her legs, but the best she could manage with her stubby Persian 
paws was an inefficient tread. She could not swim. She was about to start 
flipping her shit again. I swam down and grabbed her, pulling her into the 
crook of my arm. I started pumping my legs upward as she dug her claws 
into my chest. Her ears were pinned to the back of her head. She breathed 
heavily, her head on a swivel, looking about with terror. 

“Carl, Mongo is in his carrier. You lied to me! We’re drowning! Help! 
Help!” 

“Calm down. We have company. You need to be quiet. Deep breath.” 

“How can I take a deep breath when I’m drowning, Carl?” 

“The water scroll, remember? Keep an eye on the countdown. You’ll 
need to renew it soon.” 

A pair of bloated corpses floated past, sinking. These were pink- 
skinned, naked, human-like creatures, but they were covered in wrinkles, 


and their heads were like that of a naked mole rat. Their eyes were white 
and bulbous, like onions. Their mouths hung open in death, revealing large, 
yellow, and rotting teeth. 

Corpse. Tuco. Nude Glaber. Level 30. Killed by drowning. 

The Nude Glabers were the NPCs who lived in the settlements within 
the necropolis. Pd never seen one, but one of the tomb raider guys had 
described them. All of these corpses must’ve been from one of those 
settlements after the temple filled with water. They’d been described as 
“undead,” but I didn’t realize an undead creature could drown. It was 
probably an inaccurate description. Most of those necropolis guys didn’t 
know what they were doing. 

Donut squirmed in my grip. Her voice sounded distant and hollow even 
though she was right next to me. “That’s a shark down there. A shark! I can 
see more coming. They are everywhere. This is not acceptable. I told you I 
am not to be brought into the water. This is a betrayal worse than when you 
gave my pet biscuits to that danger dingo.” 

“You take a shower every five minutes,” I grunted as I swam. “This is 
practically the same thing.” 

“This is quite obviously not the same thing, Carl. Get me out of here 
this instant.” 

I was furiously pumping my legs, swimming upward. The rushing noise 
of water streaming from the necropolis was getting louder. I didn’t think we 
could just swim right into the stream. It’d be like stepping into a tornado. 
But what could we do? The monster—apparently a shark—was still lazily 
circling toward us. We were being sandwiched between the current and the 
mob. The creature crunched on the corpse of Tuco and some other debris. 
When it opened its mouth, I could hear the distinctive beat of “Jump 
Around” blast out into the ocean. It’d eaten the goddamned alarm trap. 

“Please, Carl. I’m sorry. I don’t like this. Can we go? Please?” 

None of my explosives with exposed fuses would work, at least not 
well, under water. I was pretty sure dynamite would work, but I’d have to 
use the inherent instability of the explosive and not the wick to set it off. I'd 
seen enough blast fishing videos in my time to know that you didn’t want to 
be anywhere near any such explosion. I didn’t trust in our ability to swim 
away in time. I’d been working on a depth charge design, but that didn’t 
help me now. 


My impact-detonated hob-lobbers would probably be effective against 
the creature, but there was all sorts of debris flying about down here, and 
again, I couldn’t guarantee we’d get away in time. 

The corpse of yet another creature floated past us. This was a dolphin 
thing, and it’d been pierced right through the head with a glass shard. 

Lootable Corpse. Bubble Beluga. Level 29. Killed by getting her 
brain pierced by a spear of glass. It hurt a lot, too. 

“Are you calm? Donut, listen to me. I’m gonna need you. Are you 
good?” 

“No I am most certainly not good. I am really far from good, Carl.” 

“Listen. Hekla,” I said, pointing at the corpse of the beluga. “Send them 
after the shark. Do it now.” 

This was one of Donut’s favorite moves. We’d originally called it 
“Slime Time,” but it had somehow evolved to “Hekla.” Katia thought it was 
distasteful and a little fucked-up to call it that, and it was, but it was also 
pretty damn funny. 

Donut, to her credit, didn’t hesitate. She cast Second Chance on the 
beluga corpse and then immediately cast Clockwork Triplicate, creating 
three of them. The two copies appeared with glass spikes through their 
heads, which was a nice touch. Donut sent them after the monster while I 
swam under the rushing current. I had to slam on yet another water- 
breathing scroll. 

Almost immediately, one of the clockwork belugas exploded 
underwater. I felt it mostly in my ears, like I’d just blown them out. The 
mob roared, lion-like as it was injured by exploding shrapnel. Before I 
could compose myself, the second clockwork exploded behind us. 

“Carl, watch out!” Donut cried. 

“Holy shit,’ I gasped as two more sharks rushed in out of nowhere. 
They swarmed right past us, skirting the bottom of the fast-moving current. 
They ignored us and headed straight for the injured shark. Christ that was 
close. Each was about fifteen feet long and jet black with glowing red eyes. 
Other than the terrifying color and eyes, they looked much like a typical 
tiger shark. I caught a glimpse of their description. 

Concierge Shark. Level 41. 

These psychos are of the bite-first, ask-questions-later school of 
underwater diplomacy. 


Also known as the “Death’s Welcoming Committee” Shark, the 
Concierge Shark is one of the fastest and most voracious of the ocean’s 
predators. They’ll eat anything. ANYTHING. Even those circus peanut 
candy things. It’s really kind of gross. 

They are attracted to the scent of blood, making them the most 
common death dealers of any water-themed dungeon. 

The two newcomers barreled into the first shark, who’d been injured in 
the explosion. They started ripping at each other, causing a cloud of blood 
to bloom under us. 

“There are more coming,” Donut hissed. 

“Let me know if any follow.” 

Since I couldn’t swim up through the fast-moving current, I swam 
across and below the water stream, attempting to get to the other side. I kept 
pumping my legs, swimming with only one arm while Donut clutched to 
me, whimpering. A school of small fish rushed past, cutting through us like 
a hailstorm, but they came and went, not doing any harm. Donut sputtered 
as a fish slapped her in the face. 

Above, the sense of rushing water eased. I put more distance between us 
and the shark fight. Donut said more were coming, all headed straight for 
the plume of blood. 

I swam to the surface, poking my head above water. Donut popped up 
next to me, unnecessarily gasping for breath. Her whole body trembled. I 
had to keep her from sinking back in. 

“Oh wow,” I said, looking off at the blast of water pouring from a hole 
in the side of the necropolis. It was pitch black outside, but multiple lights, 
mostly from other crawlers, stood near the castle’s remains, lighting up the 
area. The castle was just gone. The walls surrounding it were obliterated. 
All that remained were the lightning rod towers that stood on either side of 
the entrance, the tops of which glinted in the light like twin obelisks. 

We were about a quarter of a mile off shore. I warily looked about for 
mobs. Far to our right, splashing rose in the night air. It was a feeding 
frenzy. First there had been one. Then three. Now there were dozens of 
sharks fighting each other. 

I weighed our next move. We needed to get to that submarine. The 
Akula. We had to turn off the pump. But I knew the sub was located on the 
opposite side of the ring-shaped water quadrant, and we sure as hell weren’t 


going to swim there from here. I decided to put Donut out of her misery and 
take her back to the shore for now. 

I had a kayak in my inventory from the floating house’s garage. I pulled 
it free, popping it out onto the surface, where it bobbed up and down like a 
cork. I lifted Donut and placed her within. I pulled myself into the kayak 
and pulled the double-sided paddle. I figured this would be faster than 
swimming. 

My water-breathing scroll ran out, and I suddenly vomited. Dark, brown 
water rushed from my lungs. I hadn’t even realized it was there. It felt as if 
I’d been kicked in the stomach while breathing fire. It reminded me of the 
time Mordecai gave Louis and Firas the anti-alcohol potions. A moment 
later, Donut also vomited, loud and long, the retches traveling across her 
body like a sine wave. The amount of water that came out of her seemed to 
be way too much. When it was finally over, she gave out a little whimper 
and then vomited again, and this time a little fish fell out of her mouth and 
started flopping around on the top of the kayak. 

I started paddling toward shore. Donut sat there glowering, completely 
flattened out and soaked through. She had a piece of seaweed attached to 
her tiara. While she’d appeared almost majestic and fairy-like underwater, 
up here she looked like a dead rat that’d been resurrected and then run over 
by a garbage truck. 

“That was pretty awesome,” I said once it was clear we were safe from 
the sharks. 

“Go fuck yourself, Carl,” Donut said. 


“This is an outrage!” Donut cried when we were back at the home base. 
She’d showered and was once again dry and clean. “I was buried alive, shot 
out of a water cannon, drowned, and then almost eaten by a shark, and I 
didn’t even get a boss box for that? We won the level. The slime thing died, 
and we get nothing? Carl, the game is cheating again.” 

Mongo made a chirping noise, agreeing with Donut’s outrage. 

“The ooze isn’t dead. We’d melted it down, but then it got washed 
away.” 


We’d had to track a quarter turn around the land quadrant before we 
could get to a town that’d take us in. It was me, Donut, Katia, Louis, and 
Firas. The town was called Pandinus, and the occupants were half human, 
half-scorpion centaur-like creatures called pazuzu. They were all dressed in 
ridiculous, post-apocalyptic gear: punk-rock style leather and tassels and 
goggles and chains and dreadlocks, like they were all heading out to a Mad 
Max convention. 

Louis and Firas went off to get some sleep. Louis grumbled something 
about not being able to drink alcohol as we left them to enter our personal 
space. Gwen and her team remained at the site of the castle. Even though 
we'd defeated the quadrant, the stairwell was now buried. It was directly 
under the spray from the necropolis drain, so they were going to turn it off 
and then dig it out. I sent a warning to the tomb raider guys that it would fill 
back up with water. They hadn’t moved yet, so it didn’t matter. 

We knew the stairwell remained because those with the pathfinder 
benefit could still see it sitting there. Once the team dug it out, they’d 
attempt to put a roof over it and maybe dig a separate tunnel to it. Or at the 
very least, seal it off. We’d have to turn the drain back on, especially after 
we turned the submarine’s pump off. That was the only way to fully empty 
the necropolis of water. 

Apparently the sand slime wasn’t fully “defeated” and was still hanging 
around somewhere. It was probably floating around as a single grain of 
sand somewhere in the ocean where it wouldn’t be able to properly 
regenerate. If that was the case, we’d never see it again. And because it 
wasn’t dead, we’d gotten screwed out of the boss box. I wasn’t too worried 
about it. On the first two floors, the bronze and silver boss boxes held great 
loot, but the boxes were now shit compared to how they’d been on the 
earlier floors. 

The good stuff would now only be had in the city boss and above boxes. 

Still, Pd received multiple achievements and other loot boxes for that 
last stunt. The notable ones were: 


New achievement! Milquetoast! 

You somehow managed to win an important boss battle without 
actually killing the boss. That’s like paying money to a prostitute just so 
she’ll cuddle with you. 


Reward: You’ve received a silver Pacifist’s Box. 


New achievement! I was in the pool! 

You spent more than 60 seconds fully submerged underwater, and 
you didn’t die! Parts of you may have experienced shrinkage, but 
otherwise you’re okay. You’re now an honorary mudskipper! 

Reward: You’ve received a Bronze I’m Wet Box! 


The I’m Wet box contained an additional ten scrolls of water breathing for 
each of us. Donut’s box, for some unfathomable reason, was silver instead 
of bronze, and she received an additional item: a Belt of Buoyancy. It was 
a simple belt that wrapped around her stomach that’d keep her from 
sinking. It only worked in the water, and she spent a good three minutes 
bitching about it, about how she was never going back there again. 

The silver Pacifist box contained a skill potion for Donut that raised her 
Dodge skill by one, taking it to 10. That was a big deal because she’d been 
training with it for a while now, and the skill had been stuck on nine. That 
happened a lot with certain skills. Now that she’d hit level 10, she had a 
permanent Deflection buff, which caused both magical and physical 
missiles to be less accurate when they were shot at her. Mordecai said it 
wasn’t complete protection from arrows, but it halved their accuracy. It also 
meant they were more likely to go into either me or Mongo if she was 
nearby. 

In my Pacifist box, I received two potions that gave Mordecai pause. 

“Don’t use those,” he said the moment he saw them. 

“Why not?” 

He didn’t answer for several moments. “Because the last time I saw 
someone drink that potion, they accidentally killed half of their party.” 

Potion of Bloodlust 

It’s like giving yourself a PCP enema after spending the day riding 
the Night Train Express. 

Drinking this potion gives the following effects for (Constitution) 
seconds. 

Strength times two. 


Movement speed times two. 

Dexterity times .5 

The Where the Fuck Am I? Who the Fuck Are You? Debuff 

Constitution times .5 

For every crawler, NPC, or mob killed by you while this potion is 
active, your movement speed increases by an additional 25%. 

“So, it’s like a berserking potion?” 

“That’s exactly what it is,” Mordecai said. “But that debuff makes it so 
you don’t remember where you are or why you’re fighting. It’s too 
dangerous to use.” 

I put the two potions away. I agreed with Mordecai. The last thing I 
wanted to do was take a potion that would make me lose control, even if it 
greatly enhanced my strength. I’d look in the cookbook and see if it had any 
advice that’d make the potion more useful. 

Gwen: That was easier than I thought it’d be. We found the wall to 
the stairwell chamber. We’ll finish digging it out, seal it up tight, and 
then we can figure out how to do this last part. 

Carl: 10-4. Watch out for any remnants of the ooze. 

I pulled out the two pieces of the artifact. The winding box and the 
watch. I placed them on the table. I was a little afraid of the winding box 
now that I knew there was a way to use it to open a portal to the Nothing. 
And that things would come out when you did. 

Katia wordlessly handed me the note she’d gotten off the Mad Dune 
Mage when she’d been forced to fight him. She wasn’t certain if he really 
was dead or not. She’d gotten experience, and she’d looted his body, but 
he’d turned to sand. I didn’t know if that meant he was dead or not. Either 
way, the system said we’d defeated the quadrant, and that was the important 
part. 

The note was several pages long. The first few pages were a note to 
Tish, the same person who’d chewed him out in that other letter we’d 
found. The remaining bulk of the pages were lists of words followed by a 
set of numbers. The final page was filled with drawings. 

Tish, 

I know you hate me, but please listen. Hope is not lost. They asked me to 
use the box to destroy this entire island and to suck it into the Nothing. 
Doing so is a mistake. All three pieces of the artifact are in the area, and all 
three pieces would end up in that alternate dimension. It is too dangerous 


for the feral gods to possess, even in pieces. So instead, I have a plan. If the 
ghost of Psamathe ever leaves before I can implement my fix, I will be 
forced to destroy myself, but I hope it will never come to pass. 

I have discovered something useful. This familiar of hers, the ooze, has 
split loyalties. I truly believe it loves me, as odd as it sounds. It knows of my 
affection for my now-frozen Lika, and it is jealous. I can use this. I don’t yet 
know how. 

I still conduct my research during the times when I have a body and am 
able to work. Here is what I’ve learned. 

The gate of the feral gods is both a complicated and a simple device. 
You first dial to a time, which represents a place. Both watches are 
connected magically. If you dial a time on one watch, it is mirrored on the 
other. This time represents your destination, and how this works is a 
byzantine process that I do not yet understand, though I have determined 
multiple destination and time combinations, even without a watch of my 
own. I have included those notes with this letter. 

Once you have dialed into a location, you place both watches in the 
box, and you activate the winding process. The second watch will start 
ticking and moving. This is the only time the two watches will be out of 
sync. Once the time on the second watch syncs up with the time representing 
your current location, the alarm will go off on the second watch, and it will 
stop ticking. The box is now armed. This process can take anywhere from a 
simple moment to a full turn of the watch, depending on the distance you 
wish to travel. You cannot move the box from its current location, or it will 
reset. You remove the two watches, and the portal appears. 

The portal is one-way, and it will last about twenty minutes or until the 
winding box and the watches are brought through. Once that happens, the 
exit closes at the destination location. 

However, you must beware. The portal lingers at the location where it 
was opened, and it is now a two-way portal into the Nothing. It remains 
open until a creature comes through that horrible dimension. And, believe 
me, they will come through. It will be fast. Oftentimes, this will be a feral 
god. Depending on the god that escapes, or its level of power, there may be 
great destruction. And if certain gods or minor deities—like Psamathe— 
make it through, the current pantheon may be forced to react. 

It is also said that those who use the portal, those with weak 
constitutions, mustn’t linger as they pass through. Even close proximity to 


the open door is enough to touch their weak minds and paint them with the 
feral madness. 

But I have also discovered that the winding box itself is a conduit to the 
Nothing. All one must do to open a passage is open the lid, wind the box, 
and send a stream of charged energy into the device, and a portal will open 
directly to the Nothing. 

Yes, this is dangerous. I know, I know. But love makes us do the most 
dangerous of things. Isn’t that the way of the worlds? 

This is how I opened a portal to seek out Yarilo, banished god of lust. 
This is how I was tricked by Psamathe into marrying her familiar. My 
beloved Lika remains banished in her own version of hell because I was 
fooled. And now Psamathe is free in the necropolis, where she has 
supposedly usurped the ghost that is known as Quetzalcoatlus. 

Here is what I am going to do to defeat her. If I am successful, I will die, 
but you will receive this letter along with the winding box. Then you can 
send another expedition to seek the remaining two artifacts. I believe they 
are... 

The note ended there. There was a missing page. 

“So,” Katia said. “I was looking at the page of numbers, and they are all 
locations we can travel to using the gate, but it looks like they’re all in the 
area surrounding the city of Larracos. Once we have the second watch, we 
just move the watch to the time representing the location, stick it in, and 
wait for the alarm to go off.” 

“Are you saying we can open a gate directly to the ninth floor?” I asked. 

“That’s right,” Katia said. “Also, I think I can make a map of the ninth 
floor with these notes.” 

“Don’t get too excited,” Mordecai said. “You might be able to open a 
gate to the Plains of Larracos, but you won’t be able to go through it. 
Crawlers can’t hop floors. There’s a gate right there in the Desperado Club 
in the casino, but it’s closed to you. So if you get the grand idea of opening 
a gate, you won’t be able to go through, and when it closes, you’ ll have to 
deal with something awful coming through that will surely kill everything 
in the entire bubble.” 

“Maybe,” Katia said. She shuffled the papers and pointed to a note on 
the last page. It was multiple drawings of the two watches and the winding 
box along with two gates, depicting various scenarios. The first depicted the 
three items on one side of the gate, and the second depicted just the winding 


box on the far side. It went on from there with each possible combination, 
indicating what would happen. All but one of the scenarios ended with a 
monster emerging from the gate on the opening side. That last illustration 
was circled, and it depicted one watch on each side of the gate and the 
winding box inside the portal. “It looks like if we do this last way, we’ll 
lose the box, but no monsters will get out.” 

Mordecai grunted. “It’d be a waste. You ain’t using this thing to hop 
floors no matter what.” 

I barely heard him. I was focused on the second-to-last scenario. Holy 
shit. Holy fucking shit. 

I shook my head, and I decided to focus on the problem at hand. “Do 
you think if we summon one of those feral god things it’ll be able to travel 
outside the bubble? Or break the bubble wall?” 

“I don’t know,” Mordecai said. “Some of them are bigger than the 
bubble. Summoning them usually resizes them, but this isn’t a true 
summoning. It’s them, in their true form, without a time limit. It’s them 
escaping imprisonment. You’re all getting ahead of yourselves. You don’t 
even have the last watch yet. And if you do get that watch, my advice will 
be to stick it in your inventory and not do anything with it until you’re 
strong enough to deal with whatever comes out, which will be never. Now 
if you need me, I’ll be in the crafting room. I think I’m onto something with 
that yam you received earlier.” 

I glanced at the level timer as Mordecai walked away. We had just over 
four and a half days left. “Is there a Desperado Club in this town?” 


OceanofPDF:com 


[ 24 ] 


BEFORE KATIA COULD ANSWER ME, I WAS INTERRUPTED BY A MESSAGE. 

Gwen: We’ve dug out the stairwell. Something odd happened when 
we entered. The whole room was made of glass, but the moment I sent 
Tran in, it all flashed, and everything turned to... 

A loud error message blocked out the rest of her note. 

Warning: An item in your catalog is no longer eligible to be held in 
inventory. It will be forcibly removed in five seconds. 

“What the hell?” I said. I immediately thought of the last two times this 
had happened, both times to Katia. The first was when all the blood in her 
inventory had exploded out of her because of the container patch. The 
second time I hadn’t seen. It was when she’d placed the whole house in her 
inventory, and Borant had changed the rules. It’d destroyed a tavern when 
the house appeared and effectively got her banned from the town, which 
was why we’d had to trek an extra mile to get to this settlement. 

Both of those had happened immediately after the recap episode, which 
was when Borant applied their updates and patches. We still had a few 
hours until the episode, so I had no idea what was going on. I gritted my 
teeth and waited for it to happen. 

The crystallized head of Ghazi’s sex doll popped out of my inventory 
and splatted onto the floor. 

Only it wasn’t crystallized anymore. It was still the decapitated sex doll 
head of a half-naiad named Lika. The chin had chipped badly when Mongo 
had knocked over the statue, and the frozen, life-like head of the doll had a 
big chunk taken out of its latex chin. 

“Uh, Carl,” Katia said. “You dropped a head on the floor.” 


I have seen a few sex dolls in my time, though I wouldn’t consider 
myself an expert. I knew, at least on earth, they ranged in quality from the 
cheap, inflatable kind all the way to the Al-controlled RealDolls who could 
talk and move and looked at least moderately realistic. 

This was about halfway between those two extremes. It was a latex-like 
dummy head that was clearly once attached to a sex doll and not just a run- 
of-the-mill mannequin. The head was stuck with an open mouth and wide 
eyes. It was slathered with hooker-tier makeup. Two sharp-looking fangs 
hanged down from its mouth, vampire like. The head had a full-head of 
bone-white, silky-looking hair. Its full lips were painted bright red. A half 
set of gills cleaved either side of its neck, cut short right at the point of 
decapitation, giving the cut an extra jagged appearance. The bottom of the 
neck hole was just solid latex. 

It had a sparkly barrette in its hair that read, “Wet for you.” 

“My goodness is that thing ghastly,” Donut said, sniffing at the object. 
She made a face. Mongo shrieked. “Carl, do people really use these 
things?” 

“Yeah, they do,” I said. “But they’re usually attached to bodies. People 
get lonely. Don’t judge Ghazi too harshly.” 

“Oh, I’m judging him. Miss Beatrice had a drawer full of sex toys, but 
she never sailed off to the other side of the world because her vibrator told 
her to.” She cocked her head. “Actually, you know what? That is kind of 
what she did, now isn’t it? Only her sex toy was that Brad fellow.” 

“Why isn’t this eligible to be in my inventory anymore?” I asked, trying 
hard to ignore Donut’s jab. I picked the head up, grabbing it by a handful of 
hair. All the description said was Decapitated Lika Sex Doll Head. I 
touched one of the teeth, cringing at the idea of fangs in the mouth of a 
goddamned sex doll, but the sharp tooth bent easily under the press of my 
finger. It was made of a soft, flexible latex. The jaw was hinged, so I could 
open and close it. 

“Mmmm hmmmm fck offa me.” 

The voice came from the head. 

“Jesus fuck,” I exclaimed, dropping it on the floor. It bounced once, and 
it cried out in surprise. 

Donut yowled and scampered back. Mongo shrieked and was about to 
attack, but I yelled for him to stop. The moment the thing started talking, a 
white dot appeared on my map. 


The head continued to shriek with outrage, but I couldn’t understand a 
word it was saying. 

“So, I guess this thing is still possessed,” I said, poking at it with my 
foot. I wasn’t too worried about it attacking me or casting a spell since we 
were in a saferoom. “Gwen’s team broke the crystallization spell when they 
entered the stairwell chamber. So everything that was made of glass is now 
back to normal.” 

Katia and I stood over the head, looking down at it. It continued to 
scream and holler. “Carl, examine its new properties. It’s been updated.” 

Lika Love Doll Head. 

This item is possessed with the Withering Spirit of Psamathe. 

Psamathe, or Samantha as her friends used to call her, is a minor 
deity who was banished to the Nothing by her father after he found out 
she was kicking around with some ancient king guy. She’s usually 
accompanied by her trusty sidekick, a sand ooze familiar who also 
happens to be the cursed child of her union with the king. You know, 
typical god stuff. 

And if you think that’s peculiar, you ain’t seen nothing yet. Those 
guys hanging out in the halls of the Celestial Ascendency on the 12" 
floor get themselves involved in some serious whackadoodle business, let 
me tell you. You ever see a guy give birth to a fortune-telling, snake- 
headed cow out of his thigh? Or a woman whose menstrual blood is 
sentient? That’s the sort of shit that’s waiting for you down there. 

Psamathe is as intelligent as she is quick-tempered. Unfortunately 
for her, her first escape attempt from the Nothing resulted in a split, 
and half of her essence was forced to take refuge in the closest 
unoccupied naiad vessel she could find, which happened to be a sex doll 
based on the fictional Lika, who, oddly enough, was actually based 
loosely on an inaccurate history of Psamathe. She’s had to live in the 
doll for many years, unable to move until the rest of her spirit could be 
reunited. 

The story gets kind of weird from there. 

“All righty, then,” I said. 

Carl: Hey, Mordecai. What’s a withering spirit? 

Mordecai: Why? 

Carl: We have a visitor. 


Mordecai burst out of the crafting room and stopped dead, looking at 
the creature on the floor, his eyes wide. “By his left tit, where did that come 
from?” 

“Carl had her in his inventory!” Donut exclaimed. 

Mordecai moved closer to examine it. He bent over, moving his beak 
inches from the head. He tapped at her. “Sometimes the soul of a creature 
can get... split... into two halves. When a body is split, the two halves will 
always try to reunite, like magnets coming together. They have to do it ina 
proper vessel. But if something goes wrong during the reunification, what 
you end up with is a withering spirit. They’re not alive. Not dead. In fact, 
it’s kind of hard for them to die now, but they’re mostly harmless. The 
vessel has to be similar to their original body, and if it’s not, this happens. 
They haunt the object, but they have very little power. It’s a bit messed up. 
They use withering spirits as quest-giving NPCs a lot.” 

“Tt sounds similar to Remex the skyfowl from the end of the third 
floor,” I said. 

“Yes. Remex was a soul leech capacitor. That is a much more dangerous 
type of withering spirit, one purposely built by a powerful mage or 
necromancer designed to hold power and suck souls away from people. 
These are a more stable version of the same thing. It’s terrible for her, but 
she’s in no position to harm us directly. Several seasons back, they had an 
entire level where every weapon found on the floor was possessed by a 
withering spirit. She’ll need an exorcism to get free now. Plus she’s a minor 
deity, which complicates everything.” 

“Does that mean she’s like a demigod? Half human or whatever?” 

The head spit in anger. 

Mordecai shrugged. “It could be, but probably not. She’s clearly not 
100% ascendency material, or else she’d never have been cast away to the 
Nothing. Think of the pantheon like a rich guy’s country club. She might 
have a famous dad, but her mother was probably from the wrong side of the 
tracks, so to speak. We don’t want to get involved in her story. We avoid 
gods like we avoid dealing with factions outside the dungeon. We have 
enough of this bullshit to deal with already.” 

“I know what happened,” Katia said, snapping her finger. “It said that 
when she escaped the first time, she ended up in the body of the love doll, 
right? It said it was the closest thing she could find to her real form. That 
means she was the one who talked Ghazi into coming here in the first place. 


She’d been lying to him the whole time about who she really was. She 
wanted him to open the Nothing. She told him it was to find that god of 
lust, but it was a trick. The moment the Nothing opened up, her second half 
flowed out along with the sand ooze. But something went wrong. Ghazi 
screwed something up during the process, and the love doll, the vessel 
holding her first half, got turned to glass. She had to use the ooze to keep 
him here until something came along and de-crystallized everything. 
Everyone thought she went into the body of Quetzalcoatlus but they had it 
wrong because they didn’t know she’d been split in two, and they didn’t 
know Ghazi had her other half on him the whole time.” 

“And she would’ve gotten away with it if a certain little dinosaur hadn’t 
knocked her over and shattered her into a thousand pieces,” I said. 

“Good boy, Mongo!” Donut said. 

Itd been a trap, I realized. If we had managed to keep the castle intact 
and cancel out the glass spell, the sex doll would’ve woken up, but she’d 
have been a full-powered minor deity. 

I wasn’t sure if we’d gotten lucky or not. Mongo had barely touched the 
thing when it’d fallen over and broken. I had an ominous feeling we were 
still on rails here, heading toward a manufactured confrontation. 

And that was always a bad thing. 

The head continued to muffle-scream at us from the floor. 

Donut batted at the head, and it rolled. “Carl, I just realized something! 
This is just like the plot of those Child’s Play movies with that Chucky 
doll,” Donut said. “This Psamathe lady is Chucky, but she’s only a head, 
and she can’t move.” 

“I was thinking it’s more like the horcruxes from Harry Potter,” Katia 
said. “But in this case, her soul was only broken into two pieces.” 

“No,” Donut said. “Definitely Chucky. That lady who wrote that wizard 
movie stole all of her ideas from those ridiculous 80’s horror movies Carl 
always watched. I only saw one of those wizard movies, and it had a dog in 
it. Disgusting.” 

“They were books before they were...” Katia stopped. She made the 
wise decision not to pursue it. 

“It doesn’t matter. She’s probably batshit crazy by now,” I said. I went 
down to my knee and poked at her. She growled. “There’s only so many 
ways the game can tell us that spending time in the Nothing makes you 
insane.” 


Donut nodded. “Yes, I supposed you’re right. Plus part of her was 
frozen in that doll all this time. That probably wasn’t good for her mental 
health, either. ve watched you abuse yourself more than once, and I know 
it wasn’t good for mine. I can’t imagine what it would’ve done to me if I’d 
been forced to actually participate.” She turned to Katia and lowered her 
voice. “He wiped his hand on me once. You know, afterward.” 

“That is absolutely not true!” I exclaimed. 

“What are we going to do?” Katia asked, changing the subject. “We 
can’t even understand what she’s saying. Do you think a real god is going to 
come down and try to attack her? That’s why those people from that college 
were so alarmed in the first place.” 

“T don’t know,” I said. “Mordecai?” 

He shook his head. “You guys are blazing new trails with this one. I 
don’t know what in the hell is going to happen. I’ve never seen so many 
cross-floor storylines before. The fact they’re using Larracos and the 
Ascendency as a plot point on a fifth floor quest is just astounding to me. 
Based on everything I’ve seen, I suspect the moment she leaves the safe 
room, her presence might summon an angry god. But maybe not. After all, 
she’s not fully resurrected.” 

“Let’s let Mongo eat her!” Donut said. “Or we can burn her away. Or 
we can just toss the head back into the Nothing. We don’t have to do it here. 
They have a Nothing gate at the casino, too. Remember?” 

“We’d have to get her out the saferoom first before it’ll let us do 
anything to her,” I said. It was starting to dawn on me that her existence was 
going to be a bigger headache than I first thought. “We can’t stick her in a 
pet carrier. At least I don’t think it’ll let us.” 

“Probably not,” Mordecai agreed. 

“We can just dump her in the tavern,” Katia said. 

I thought for a moment. “That’s not a bad idea, but that scorpion guy 
will probably punt her out the door, which might cause issues.” 

“Then what? Keep her in the safe room?” Katia asked. 

“Hang on,” I said. I picked the head back up by her hair. The jaw on the 
thing was posable. I pushed it closed all the way. She continued to wail, but 
now it was completely muffled. I grasped the chin and pulled down, moving 
in increments until I could understand what she was trying to say. 

“...Going to kill your mother. I’m going to find where she lives and set 
her on fire and then kill her and then get a necromancer to bring her back 


from the dead and then kill her over and over again and make you watch 
while I...” She trailed off once she realized I’d moved her mouth to just the 
right position where she made coherent words, like I’d tuned into the proper 
radio station. 

“Hello,” I said. “My name is Carl. Can I call you Samantha? I’m going 
to call you Samantha. Your real name is a little too weird for me.” 

“Where’s the rest of my body?” she demanded. She could move her 
lips. Sort of. She sounded as if she was talking through clenched teeth. “Do 
you know how long I worked to reunite myself? Do you know what I had to 
do?” 

“Oh, honey,” Donut said. “We were just talking about it. It must’ve been 
awful.” 

I adjusted her chin slightly. “Yeah, so your body got shattered into 
dozens of pieces and then swept out into the ocean. I would guess at least 
half of you is currently being digested by a very large shark.” 

I couldn’t read any emotion on the head. The eyes were unblinking, and 
it kind of freaked me out. “My child. I can feel her. She’s alive, but she’s 
unable to reform. I only had moments, and I made her marry that idiot. 
He’d used too much power and flash-froze everything, including the vessel. 
I only had a few minutes. That’s the last I can remember. My child. My 
child. Oh, my sweet child.” 

She was talking about the sand ooze, I realized. 

“She’s probably in the ocean. She’ll eventually end up back on shore. 
Her husband might be a little dead, though.” 

“I’m going to kill your mother.” 

“Uh,” I said. “Look. What do you want us to do with you? I can’t take 
you with me. Do you want us to toss you back into the Nothing?” 

“No. Please. No. Not that. I want you to go find my pieces and put them 
back together. I worked so long to escape. I need a physical form.” 

“That’s not going to happen,” I said. 

“So you tricked that guy into coming here?” Donut asked. “I must say, I 
am impressed. Men are so easily tricked, but still. Bravo. Pm always 
tricking Carl here into doing things for me, but you talked him into opening 
a different dimension for you. I do feel bad for Tish, however. She really 
seemed to like him.” 

“Tish? Tish almost ruined everything. Take me to her. I’m... Pm... 

“Going to kill her mother?” I asked. 


33 


Samantha started bawling. 

“All right,” I said, standing up and dropping the head back on the floor. 
“This isn’t going to work. I’m either going to toss you out the door or risk 
letting Mongo eat you or something. What’s your pleasure?” 

She stopped crying just as quickly as she started. “Take me with you,” 
she said. “We can go on adventures together. There’s this naiad who lives in 
the Hunting Grounds who might be able to help me.” 

And there it was. This was how they were going to write this 
goddamned talking sex doll head into our story. 

“I already have a talking cat, a dinosaur, a Katia, and a grumpy eagle 
guy in my party. The last doll we had didn’t work out. I mean no offense, 
but the inn is full. Especially for a creature who is probably going to get us 
murdered by an angry god at any moment.” 

“I’m going to kill your mother.” 

Mordecai: I know I’m going to regret this, but I have an idea. I 
think we should keep her. We can keep her in the saferoom, so she can’t 
hurt us. If she doesn’t leave, she won’t summon a god. This is a minor 
deity, so she may have some valuable knowledge. She’s probably the 
one who taught Ghazi how to cast all of those spells. If I can get some 
potion knowledge out of her, it would be worth it. 

Carl: She’s a talking sex doll head, and she keeps threatening to kill 
my dead mother. Besides, how can we keep her? Won’t she disappear 
when we go down a level? 

Mordecai: Like I mentioned before, we can hire a few NPCs. It only 
lets you do it to certain kinds, but I can guarantee itll work on her. 
Donut can hire her using the personal space menu. You have a slot for a 
trainer and a cook right now. Hire her as a trainer, and she’Il live in a 
corner of the training room. On the next floor, we can get a new module 
that’ll allow us to hire mercenaries and additional staff. We can stick 
her in one of those slots. 

Donut: I LIKE HER. AND I DIDN’T KNOW WE CAN HIRE 
MERCENARIES! CAN I HIRE SLEDGIE? 

Katia: I think it’s a terrible idea, but if keeping her in the room 
keeps us safe, then we can give it a go for a little while. The game 
obviously wants us to keep her. 

Carl: Yeah, that’s what I’m worried about. 


I picked up the head, pushed the mouth all the way closed, and I strode 
to the training room. I rolled her inside and closed the door. 

“We’ll deal with her later. We have four and a half days left. I want to 
get that fourth castle taken care of as soon as possible because as soon as 
that’s done, we’re going to start rescuing as many people as we can.” 


“What I’m saying is you take two sometimes three showers a day. That’s 
water. I don’t understand how that’s any different than going into the 
ocean.” 

“It’s not going to happen again, Carl. No. Take Katia. Or Louis. Or 
Gwen. Or Samantha the love doll for all I care. It is not happening, and 
there is not a thing in this world you can say that will get me to change my 
mind.” 

I reached up and scratched her. Her entire body was tense. “It’s okay. 
I’m just teasing you. You won’t have to go into the water this time. I will 
need you to float over it in that house, though. You’ll be in charge of the 
depth charges.” 

She sniffed. “I do like the death charges.” 

We'd taken a nap, spent some time in the craft room, and reset all of our 
buffs. Zev had messaged us earlier and reminded us that our normal 
appearance on Odette’s show was canceled. Zev still spoke to us in her 
robotic, Stepford Wife voice, but Donut had greeted her cheerfully and no 
longer seemed concerned about her condition. There was more going on 
there, but I couldn’t ask her about it. 

Pd gone into the training room to work on my Powerful Strike. It was 
currently at 14 with my gear, but only eight unenhanced. We needed to find 
a guildhall for it. It was one of those stubborn skills that didn’t like to move 
up no matter how much I trained. We really needed to find a place to just 
grind and kill mobs without gods or quests or distractions. 

Mordecai said the sixth floor would have plenty of that, but I already 
knew if we made it down there, we were going to be very, very busy. 

Pd taken the Psamathe—Samantha—head and placed her in the corner. 
She started squealing at me while I trained, so I turned her around and 
threatened to stick her in the bathroom or seal her in a bucket if she didn’t 


shut up. She stopped after that, though I occasionally heard a few random 
growls from her. 

Afterward, it was time to start planning our next move in earnest. The 
first step was we needed to get to the submarine, get inside, and figure out 
the pump system. Gwen was going to meet us with the two other survivors 
from that quadrant in an hour. In the meantime, they turned the drain back 
on. I sent a message to the tomb raiders and told them they really needed to 
start carving a path down to the water line. 

If those assholes refused, and I feared they would, we’d have to spend a 
day or two grinding traps, and nobody wanted that. 

Outside, we were hours from the start of the equinox where the 
sandstorms would last twice as long, and the days would be mostly dark. 

“You know what,” I said to Donut. “When was the last time you 
checked your social media board? You know you can do that now again 
since Zev has gotten her job back.” 

Donut lit up. “Carl, you are a genius! Mongo, come on, let’s see if 
Fleek-Otter12 got people to sign up for the unofficial fanclub!” 

Katia watched her run off. “So she really can’t swim?” 

“She sank like a rock.” 

Katia laughed. She was, on my direction, leaning over a piece of paper 
and drawing out a map of the ninth floor. Mordecai wandered into the room, 
muttering something. 

“Hey, Mordecai. Come here a second,” I said. 

He seemed distracted. “I think I need one more ingredient, but I don’t 
know what it is,” he grumbled. He was talking to himself. He did that a lot 
while he worked at his table. “What do you need?” 

I pulled the map from Katia’s hands and flipped it over. The map looked 
like a flower with the large city in the center. I already knew some of what I 
was about to ask, but I didn’t know everything, including one crucial piece 
of information. 

“Ts this an accurate depiction of the ninth floor?” 

“Guys,” he said. “Do not worry yourselves about something that is very 
far away.” 

“I know,” I said. “But I’m curious. Especially since the sixth floor is 
coming up. They’re all part of that weird volcano storyline, and I just want 
to be prepared.” 


“You’re not going to get to the sixth floor if you spend all this time 
worrying about what’s not right in front of you.” 

“Indulge me, please,” I said. 

He sighed and hopped up onto the table. He picked up a pen with his 
talon and drew lines on the map, creating nine petals for the flower. “This is 
pretty close. Larracos is in the middle, and the nine faction areas surround 
the center. You have the diameter of the city a little too big, I think,” he 
said. He drew a smaller circle. “There’s an NPC shanty town, but it’s not 
part of the city. This is Larracos here.” 

“That’s way smaller than I thought,” Katia said. 

“The city is huge, but it has a narrow diameter. It’s shaped like an 
inverted cone. It’s dug deep into the ground. Built by dwarves. Different 
levels have different things. The castle is at the bottom.” He continued to 
make small corrections, moving back to the flower petals. “This whole area 
is mostly rolling hills and pre-dug trenches. There’s a forest that surrounds 
the whole thing. The deeper you get into the forest, the more difficult the 
monsters are, but they’re usually hunted to extinction by the time you get 
there.” 

“So how does it work?” I asked. 

“Back when the third floor opened up, each of the nine factions arrived 
at their designated area. Each spot is randomly picked with one exception. 
The previous winner is allowed to choose where they start. From there, they 
start building their army and their defenses and their fortifications. Once the 
sixth floor opens, they have access to the market, and they can start buying 
armor and magical supplies from the crawlers. They can only bring one 
large chest of supplies, so it’s not enough to outfit their army. Everything 
else has to be purchased or looted. They aren’t allowed to fight each other 
until the crawlers arrive. But before that happens, they make the officers 
fight and grind in the forests, leveling themselves up. Plus they all bring 
several cheat potions to buff themselves.” 

“Where do the armies come from?” 

“They all start with fifteen thousand troops, and there’s a pool of 
mercenaries and specialists they can hire. The additional mercenaries are all 
collected via games and gambling and trades up until when the ninth floor 
opens.” He tapped the small circled he’d made, indicating the city. “The 
mercenary market is near the castle. Deep in the city. Same with the 
markets.” 


“But they can’t really die?” Katia asked. 

“The tourists? No. Not on that floor. It’s like a game for them. The 
system holds some of their health in reserve and teleports them away before 
they can die. They feel real pain, though. The troops are mostly NPCs, but 
the richer of the factions can pay for their own people to fill the ranks. They 
are equally protected. The real people can respawn too, up until the time 
you guys arrive. The NPC troops don’t respawn. Dead is dead for those 
poor bastards.” 

I felt my heart quicken. “How many of the fifteen thousand are outside 
people usually?” 

He shrugged. “A rich faction will bring maybe two hundred. It’s not 
very many because it’s expensive. A poor faction, like the Blood Sultanate 
will only bring about twenty. It’s a little like the dance floor for the 
Desperado Club. For every person they bring in, one of the NPCs is 
removed, so there’s no major tactical advantage to bring too many people in 
unless they’re well-trained already. And these guys usually aren’t.” 

“So they have to build all of their fortifications from the ground up?” 

“That’s right,” Mordecai said. He pointed to one of the petals at the top 
of the flower. “This petal comes with a pre-built, fortified castle. The King’s 
Point. It’s a more narrow area, but with steeper hills. Most previous winners 
choose this so they don’t have to waste time and resources building, and it’s 
naturally defensible.” 

I nodded. “Okay. So with the sixth floor, how does that work in 
conjunction with the ninth?” 

“The Hunting Grounds are a different sort of thing. The factions can, 
and sometimes do, send people to the sixth floor to collect gear. But it’s 
dangerous because they are not protected. It’s the only place in the game 
where they can really die. And like I said before, they do die. Most of these 
guys are rich assholes who treat the whole thing like a weekend excursion 
playing paintball. A lot of bets are made regarding the outcome of the 
faction wars, but most of the ones who are here are so rich they don’t care. 
If there’s an upset, a lot of credits can change hands. Plus there is a cash 
prize to the winner. It’s more about the bragging rights than the cash, 
though.” 

“But,” I said, “The people who do decide to hunt on the sixth floor, they 
can bring gear back to the factions?” 


“Yes,” Mordecai said. “That’s pretty much the point for some of them. 
Someone on the ninth right now can go down to the sixth. But more often, 
the hunters are people who aren’t a part of any faction. They come to win 
gear. Things like that ring you still need to ditch. Then they sell it to the 
factions.” 

“Okay,” I said, thinking hard. “One last question. When can someone 
decide to participate in all of this? Say I’m a random guy floating around in 
a spaceship, and I decide tomorrow I want to get in on the action. Can I?” 

“Yeah, if you have the credits and can get here in time. Hunters can sign 
up until the opening of the sixth floor. It’s not too late for the ninth floor 
guys, or any of the tourists and party-goers on the 18th for that matter, to 
wander down to the sixth if they dare. But most of the hunters are already 
there. It would be dumb to wait until the last minute.” 

“Why is that?” 

“Because all hunters start out as level thirty. They can start arriving 
when you hit the third. There are appropriate mob areas for them to train, so 
they can be pretty strong by the time you arrive. Especially since the 
lethality doesn’t get turned on until you get there. The hunters tend to be 
around fifty, though with the shortened timers, it might not be that high. In 
fact, I’m willing to bet my tailfeathers they won’t be that high.” 

“Thanks, Mordecai,” I said. 

“Carl,” Katia said as Mordecai returned to his work. “Why do I get the 
feeling you’re about to do something really stupid?” 

I grinned. “Let’s get the bubble popped first. Then we’ll worry about 
how stupid or not I am.” 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[2a] 


I OPENED THE POCKET WATCH AND SET OFF THE ALARM IN HOPES THAT 
Henrik would respond. I had my ink quill ready to write him a note, but he 
didn’t answer. He hadn’t replied since that first time. I relayed this to Juice 
Box via Langley. He said she was concerned about her brother, so much so 
that she was about to go in there herself. I told him to try and talk her out of 
it. 

Meanwhile, the tomb raider guys had finally started moving toward the 
water line, which was about halfway down the necropolis. The water had 
done a fine job of killing almost every non-ghost mob in the quadrant, but 
it’d only triggered about half of the traps. Bobby, the trap-finding spy, was 
on the verge of a literal breakdown and kept stopping to compose himself. 

Chris and Maggie My remained in their tomb. I still didn’t know what 
we were going to do about them. Mordecai was having little luck finding 
the supplies he needed to kill the parasite. I had Langley’s crew physically 
drag the decapitated top floor of the house containing the stairwell to just 
outside of Hump Town. That way, Donut could open up the chamber, and 
Katia could use her remaining rock-monster-paralyzing bolts to knock them 
out. We could then easily toss the paralyzed creature through the portal if 
we had to when the time came. 

I did not want to do that. Chris clearly didn’t want us to do that. Since 
we probably wouldn’t teleport to the same place, it would just unleash 
Maggie onto the sixth floor, and all of this bullshit would start over again. 
Imani was insistent we do everything to save him. It felt like the wrong 
move, but what could we do? 


None of this would matter if we didn’t take the final castle. The 
Necropolis of Anser. 

The first step: draining the rest of the water. In order to do that, we had 
to turn off the pump inside of that submarine. 

The town of Pandinus was smaller than Hump Town, but it still featured 
several inns and taverns. There was no Desperado Club here, but there was 
a Club Vanquisher. Of all of us, the only one who could get in was Gwen. 
She said there was a big fight in there recently, which was unusual for the 
club. Apparently Miriam Dom had her membership revoked once she’d 
turned into a vampire, which caused Prepotente to lose his absolute shit. He 
unleashed their third companion—that scary-ass hellspawn familiar goat— 
into the main lounge, and it had devoured a bunch of clerics before they 
fled. There was now a “Holy Crusade Bounty” on the trio, whatever that 
meant. But in the meantime, the club was closed so it could be cleansed. 

We met up at a tavern called “The Death Stalker” that was nothing more 
than a few tables and a bar. And, inexplicably, a gelato cart. The scorpion 
guy behind the counter had about twenty flavors of the stuff, and you could 
get it in a waffle cone or in a bowl. The moment I saw the cones, I was 
reminded of another cone of ice cream I’d eaten earlier in the dungeon, one 
made of worms, and I suddenly felt ill. Both Katia and Gwen got 
themselves cones. Donut happily bought a bowl of raspberry while we all 
sat down. She’d talked the pazuzu down from two gold to one for the bowl. 

It was me, Donut, Katia, Gwen, Tran the human swashbuckler guy, and 
two newcomers, both crawlers from the Ukraine. 

I examined the two strangers. One was a human named Britney 
Proskurina, and she was a level-27 Pit Fighter. The dark-haired woman 
was outfitted in a fur bikini and carried a spike-covered stick over her 
shoulder. She was really leaning into the barbarian theme that the dungeon 
had chosen for her. 

The other crawler was a level-28, spotted gecko-like creature called a 
Kuhli, which I thought was weird because I knew that was a type of fish, 
not lizard. His name was Vadim Zbar, and his class was something called a 
Gut Rearranger, which was apparently a healer/rogue combo. He was 
covered head to toe in little sheaths filled with daggers of all types. 

These were the two other survivors of the water quadrant. It turned out 
Vadim was a cosmetic surgeon in the real world, and Britney had been at 
his office for a consultation when it all went down, and they were the last 


two survivors of their original party. It was just by sheer luck that they’d 
stepped outside to take some “before” photos for her surgery when the 
collapse happened. 

“I’m not going back down there,” Britney said the moment we sat down 
at the table. “Pll tell you what you need to know, but I’d rather die than go 
back in that water.” 

“Oh, I just love your furs,” Donut said, after coming up for air between 
bites of her raspberry gelato. “And I feel you. I’m not going back in there, 
either.” 

She just looked at Donut. 

“What about you?” I asked Vadim, the gecko man. 

“T’ll go,” he said. 

“No, you will not,” Britney said. “You will die. Everybody who goes 
down there dies. We were lucky to get out the first time.” 

“PII go,” he repeated. “I think I know where the pump controls are.” 

I nodded, pointing to Katia and Tran the swashbuckler. “The four of us 
are going into the water, we are getting to the submarine, and we’re going 
to turn off the pump. Once it’s off, we’re going to get the hell out of there. I 
hope to be in and out in an hour, tops.” 

Tran turned to Vadim. “Do you own a red shirt? I feel as if I should put 
one on.” 

“What does that mean?” Vadim asked. 


The gnomish Drop Bear, the Nightmare II, remained in the large garage of 
the house. The garage was the only part of the uprooted, flying home that 
still had a roof over it. Louis and Firas did an admirable job of lashing the 
small biplane down. I inspected it as the entire garage and the rest of the 
house rose into the air, the ground swaying under us. 

Donut was in a foul mood. Apparently the AI had showed her a 
message from the intergalactic internet that had pissed her off, and she’d 
been grumbling about it for an hour straight. 

““No redeeming qualities whatsoever,” Donut muttered. “He said that, 
Carl. Can you believe it? He also said I ruined the viewing experience and 
almost made him stop watching the whole show! Stupid Shuruga36. What 


kind of name is that anyway? Shuruga. It sounds like the noise one makes 
as he’s getting whooped by a group of angry toddlers.” 

I peered into the rear-facing backseat of the airplane. The tail gun was 
still loaded with a semi-circle-shaped magazine, but I couldn’t tell how 
many rounds were left. “You spend too much time reading that stuff. Don’t 
pay attention to it. It’s just people talking. It doesn’t mean anything.” 

She ignored me. “Plus, he insulted Mongo. He said, and I quote, ‘Donut 
and her stupid dino-chicken irritate me to no end.’ Mongo is just a child. If 
he could read, he’d be appalled. I can take criticism, but picking on a child? 
That’s just uncalled for. I bet he sucks his thumb and thinks of his 
grandmother when he touches himself.” 

“You can take criticism?” I asked. 

“T’m serious, Carl.” 

Katia entered the garage. 

“T still can’t believe you guys flew that thing,” she said. 

“We didn’t really fly it. We just kinda went up into the air using it as a 
balloon.” 

“Well, the chum bombs are ready.” 

“Okay. Go ahead and start dropping them. Donut has the detonator in 
her inventory.” 

The chum bombs were nothing more than triple-ply garbage bags filled 
with various dead bodies along with fused, 1/8"-strength hob-lobbers, each 
with a piece of hobgoblin pus attached to them. They were all timed to the 
same detonator, so when Donut hit the button, they’d all blow at the same 
time, sending a mighty plume of gore out into the ocean. 

We were dropping them near the edge of the current from the draining 
necropolis. The bags would probably start leaking before we got into 
position, but that was okay. All I really wanted was a distraction for the first 
layer of underwater security, the concierge sharks. We needed them as far 
away from our position as possible. 

We had not dived deep enough to meet any of the other denizens of the 
ocean. Vadim spoke of several, including jellyfish and squids and 
hammerhead sharks. The man was very matter-of-fact and emotionless, 
unlike his companion, Britney, who seemed to be on the edge of hysterics 
the whole time. 

“Did Langley tell you about that Vadim guy?” Katia asked as I finished 
inspecting the airplane. 


I paused. “No. What about him? How do they know each other?” 
They’d never even met as far as I was aware. 

“I guess Doctor Vadim is, or was, pretty famous in the Ukraine. He had 
television commercials and billboards and stuff everywhere, advertising his 
cosmetic surgery clinics. He was always getting sued for botched surgeries. 
Langley says he has like 50 children. He’s known for impregnating many of 
his clients.” 

“Oh my,” Donut said. “I just love gossip like that when it’s extra 
delicious. I wonder why he turned himself into a lizard, then? I once knew a 
red Persian like that. Someone who pollinated his seed everywhere. His 
name was Santana’s Famous Solo. He once got out of his cage at a CFA 
event and impregnated a Sphynx. Can you imagine? It’s the equivalent of 
royalty impregnating an uncooked chicken. It was quite the scandal. Do you 
think Vadim has knocked-up Britney? She looks like the type who’d get 
knocked up by a plastic surgeon.” 

“How does Langley know about some Ukrainian guy?” I asked. 

“That’s where he’s from,” Katia said. 

“T thought he was Finnish.” 

Donut made an exasperated noise. “He is from Finland. Really, Carl. 
Sometimes I feel you don’t pay proper attention. Langley is originally from 
the Ukraine, but he immigrated to Finland not that long ago. Almost all of 
those guys in his group are from other countries.” 

I didn’t actually care where anybody was from as long as they were 
from Earth, though the story about Vadim did worry me somewhat. If it was 
true, and who knew with this sort of thing, then it made him sound like a 
weasel. Not the sort of person you wanted to go with into dangerous 
situations. Especially when you had a large bounty on your head. 

“Britney is not pregnant,” Katia said. “If she was when she went in, 
she’d probably be showing by now. Women can’t get pregnant in the 
dungeon. Our periods stop, and we get a notification informing us we are no 
longer able to conceive until after we fulfill our crawl.” 

“Wait, really?” I asked. “I never received anything like that.” I realized 
how stupid that sounded the moment I said it out loud. I, did, however 
remember an oddity from the cookbook. Rickard, the guy who’d written the 
most recent version of the book, didn’t add too much content, but he did 
mention that he’d entered the dungeon with his pregnant wife, but the 
moment he went through the gate, she’d disappeared, and he never saw her 


again. I thought it was just one of those things. I knew dudes still had the 
ability to knock creatures up. The whole reason Brandon had died was 
because another guy in their party, one of the formerly-ancient residents, 
had banged a succubus in an alleyway on the third floor, and she’d given 
birth to hundreds of baby monsters with the guy’s face. 

“Has anybody seen any pregnant women in the dungeon?” I asked. 

Katia shrugged. “I don’t think so. Except Fire Brandy on the last floor.” 

“And Eunice the dwarf on the third floor!” Donut added. 

“Those were both NPCs. I wonder if they do something special with 
pregnant crawlers,” I said. 

“Probably something awful,” Katia said. “But I can’t imagine someone 
who was pregnant would come in here voluntarily.” 

Firas popped his head into the garage. “We’re in position to drop your 
chum bombs,” he said. “The barrel launchers for the depth charges are all 
installed, too. They’re ready for you to load them. We have five hours 
before it gets dark and six before the first of the equinox sand storms hits, 
so let’s get a move on.” 

“All right,” I said. “Let’s get to work.” 


After we dropped the chum bombs, we quickly flew around the side of the 
necropolis and directly over the position of the sub. Louis and Firas had 
some system where they could adjust the elevation of the house, and it’d hit 
an air current that would blow the balloon in the direction they wanted it to 
go. They were very good at it, and Louis said they’d received a half dozen 
achievements for flying the magical balloon. 

“Hit it,” I said to Donut as we sank toward sea level. 

Donut did a little hop and then hit the hobgoblin pus detonator. We were 
too far away to hear the sound of the bags exploding, but I knew there 
would now be blood and guts and floor-four wraith body parts spreading all 
over. 

“Carl, Carl, I went up a level! I’m now 38!” 

“T guess some of those sharks got into the bombs before we could blow 
them,” I said. I was hoping that would happen. With those missing five 
days, both Donut and I had lost a lot of grinding time. We hadn’t done 


nearly as much fighting and leveling as we should have by now, and we 
needed everything we could get. 

“Does anybody see anything down there?” I asked as we hovered about 
fifteen feet off the calm surface of the water. The water level had risen 
somewhat once we’d turned the drain on, but it was still lower than when 
the floor opened. That’d change, hopefully, once we finished here. 

“I can see the sub on the map,” Katia said. Tran, who also had the 
Pathfinder skill, nodded in agreement. 

“Donut?” I asked. 

“I don’t see any monsters. I see some small fish here and there, but 
they’re all white on the map.” 

“Okay. Remember. We don’t roll the depth charges into the water unless 
I say we do. They are a last resort.” 

Donut jumped from my shoulder. “Aye, aye, Captain Carl.” She paused, 
looking between me and Katia. “You two be safe. It’s horrible down there.” 


“This is really damn weird,” Tran said as we watched Katia form into the 
diving bell. 

“Fascinating,” Vadim agreed, walking in a circle around her. 

I continued to marvel at Katia’s growth. She was forming this on the fly 
without having made it before. We were at the comer of the house, standing 
on the crumbling ground of the garden. Katia hung off the side, with a 
single arm anchored to the magical brace that held the balloon high above. 
The whole house and balloon dipped at the corner as she continued to add 
weight. 

I remembered when she first started playing with her shapeshifting 
abilities, it physically hurt her to make even a small change. Now she could 
contour herself into just about anything at a moment’s notice. She still 
wasn’t perfect with faces unless she sat in front of her makeup table, but 
with this sort of inanimate stuff, she was an expert. 

The Akula was 500 meters under the surface. Although that didn’t sound 
like much, it was an alarming depth. Vadim said the massive submarine had 
a chamber on the roof to enter and leave, but one of their mini-subs had 
been docked to it before they started their assault on the bridge. After 


they’d succeeded, something happened, and the mini-sub had blown, which 
caused the Akula to fill with water. The nose of the sub was now physically 
attached to the base of the necropolis below the water line, and the massive 
torpedo tubes along the bottom were somehow pumping vast amounts of 
ocean water directly into the structure. 

Like with the extreme height of the Wasteland, I knew diving 500 
meters below the surface simply wasn’t something that’d normally be 
possible. The crush depth of most submarines was around 400 meters. But 
Vadim and Britney both insisted they’d free dived those depths—and much 
deeper—with no real issue with the help of the water-breathing scrolls. 

Whatever physics engine was running this shitshow, it was designed to 
allow us to do the impossible. It didn’t want us dying from stupid 
environmental hazards, unless it was a deliberately placed trap or mob. 
Dying from the bends wasn’t nearly as entertaining as watching us get eaten 
by a shark. 

“Be careful,” I said to Donut as Katia opened up an entrance for me to 
step inside of her. “Katia is really heavy right now. The moment we drop 
away, this thing is going to fly up into the air. I don’t want you falling in.” 

Donut just nodded. Despite her loud insistence that she was never going 
back into the water, I could tell she was struggling with guilt over this. I 
patted her on the head. “We need you to keep us safe. Okay?” 

“Be careful,” she said, rubbing her head against my hand. 

I stepped inside. Katia was spread thin, which allowed her to make 
herself pretty large. The three of us—me, Tran, and Vadim—stood in the 
middle of the shape. She’d helpfully grown three poles in the middle so we 
could steady ourselves. She called it the diving bell, but she was really 
shaped more like an elevator with a ring of heavy, dense metal at the bottom 
to prevent her from flipping. She would grow flaps and pull some mass and 
attempt to slow our descent as we approached the sub. We wanted to 
acclimate to the water as soon as possible, so we weren’t sealed in. With 
Tran’s pathfinder skill and Vadim’s Torch spell, we’d hopefully be able to 
navigate the drowned halls of the submarine and quickly accomplish our 
task. 

The boss had been a borough boss, not a neighborhood boss, so the map 
it left showed Vadim monster types in an area, but he still didn’t have a full 
map of the Akula, which was unfortunate. There had apparently been a 


sentinel gun thing that’d been a neighborhood boss, but he said he’d never 
looted the map. Things had been happening quickly. 

“Everyone read a scroll,” I said. All around us, we each cast Water 
Breathing on ourselves. All four of us now had enough of these things in 
our inventory to last at least four hours submerged, four times the amount 
we’d hopefully need. 

I nervously watched the little needle that kept me apprised of our viewer 
count, and it was starting to spike. That was always a bad sign. 

“And away we go,” Katia said from a mouth that sat against the interior 
wall of the diving bell, right next to my ear. I almost crapped my boxers at 
the sound of the voice so close to me. 

Before I could say, “Jesus, Katia,” we dropped. The elevator hit the 
ocean and only gave the slightest pause before we were underwater. We 
sank, and the force of the water rushing inside almost pulled all three of us 
up and out. 

I kept my eye on our altitude as we rapidly fell. We moved at about five 
meters a second, rocketing toward the depths. I did feel the increasing 
pressure of the water above us as we passed 100 meters, then 200, then 300, 
but it wasn’t nearly as much as it should. 

“I see it,” Katia said after only a minute, her voice carrying through the 
water. “I’m pulling my mass in small amounts now and flapping my wings. 
Oh, wow. It’s bigger than I thought. The whole top part is ripped away. 
There’s a strong current. I can actually see the water getting pulled in. It’s 
mostly under the sub. It’s like water is being sucked in like through a 
vacuum cleaner. The whole front of the submarine is stuck in a hole. The 
whole sub is the pump.” 

I felt us start to slow. The Akula finally showed on my map, the 
structure stretching to completely fill it. The thing was the size of a small 
Carrier. 

“There are a bunch of jellyfish near the entrance,” Katia said. 

“What color are they?” Vadim snapped. 

“Blue. They’re big.” 

“Okay, good. Watch out for the white ones. The pain amplifiers. 
They’re smaller. The big blue ones will wrap around you if you get close, 
but they’ ll leave you alone if you avoid them. But you must watch because 
they drift.” 


“Okay, I’m aiming for an area without them,” Katia said. “Landing 
now.” 

Crack. We hit the hull, and Katia’s form instantly changed. The elevator 
opened like a flower, revealing the deep, dark world. It wasn’t completely 
dark. Some light still filtered in through above, but everything had a deep, 
blue hue to it. I crouched, still standing atop Katia’s form. It felt as if 
someone was standing on my shoulders, but the pressure wasn’t too bad. 

The Akula, like Katia had said, was huge. It looked more like a damn 
spaceship than an actual submarine. The slick, metallic structure spread out 
into the darkness in every direction. The whole thing vibrated. I could feel 
the water deep below being pumped through the vehicle. Directly ahead, the 
sail—the conning tower-like structure on top of most submarines—had 
been violently ripped away, giving me an unobstructed view of the bottom 
of the necropolis. From here, it was nothing more than an imposing, dark 
wall. 

Katia continued to change. She was transforming herself so she’d cover 
the hull, camouflaging herself. She was going to stay out here and keep an 
eye out for the large, dangerous monsters while the three of us entered the 
sub. The ripped away entrance was about twenty feet away. In most subs, 
the con was directly below the sail. That wasn’t the case with this 
submarine. According to Vadim, the con (called a bridge by the game), was 
at the fore of the vessel, just short of the nose. That’s where the stairwell 
was. I couldn’t see it, but Katia could. 

Vadim had described a room directly below the bridge that I believed 
was the fire control. That was our target. 

Above, the glowing, blue jellyfish floated like sentinels. Each were 
about fifteen feet in diameter, and their tentacles dangled underneath them 
ominously, hovering about twenty feet over the top of the submarine. They 
drifted aimlessly, bouncing off one another. 

Their dots were white on the map, meaning they weren’t naturally 
hostile. 

Big Boy Blue — Level 40 

The good ol’ Big Boy Blue is the largest of the jellyfish one might 
find floating around. They’re a little like that guy you used to know in 
high school who was always wearing either overalls or a jersey of some 
sort. The dude is like six foot five and pushing 300 pounds when he was 
a freshman. He always had a crewcut. Dad’s a trucker. Never talks. 


Never does his homework. He’s just always, you know, kinda there. He 
doesn’t mean any harm. But he’s so goddamned dumb he does harm 
anyway if you get in his way. Plus he always has a super-hot girlfriend 
for some reason, but that has nothing to do with the damn jellyfish. 
Anyway, you get the point. Harmless as long as you don’t touch them. 

I put my hand on the now-silver-colored edge of Katia and said, “We’re 
going in. Be safe. Keep that salve I gave you in your hotlist.” 

“In and out, Carl,” she replied. “If you can’t figure it out, set the 
bombs.” 

I patted her, and the three of us half-walked, half-bounced along the top 
of the submarine and headed inside. 


Entering the Akula. 

Vadim cast his Torch the moment we sank through the destroyed 
superstructure hole into a round room. Mechanical parts floated everywhere 
as we swam down a tunnel. The water smelled of oil and smoke, and it was 
oddly calming. Familiar. The whole place was flooded. The hull creaked 
and moaned ominously. 

Donut: ARE YOU OKAY? 

Carl: We’re fine. We’re moving in now. 

Vadim led the way. “The submarine was in terrible condition when we 
first got here. There were skeletons of bugbears and a bunch of robots we 
had to fight on our way to the bridge,” he said. We pushed our way through 
the tight corridors, swimming by pulling ourselves along the walls, which 
were warm, not freezing like I expected. “Only three of us survived.” 

“Did you get the gear of those who didn’t make it?” I asked. 

“No. Usually there wasn’t anything left. There was a gun outside the 
bridge that just blew them up. Nobody could get past it except Chris. He 
had some ability that made him invisible to the thing. He went past and into 
the boss chamber alone. When he killed the robot thing with the head in the 
jar, the gun blew up on its own.” 

“You never had any hints he was really two people?” 

Vadim shook his head. He swam under a floating, blue barrel. The man 
moved quickly in the water. I grasped the barrel and took it in, and it 


appeared in my inventory filled with sea water. 

“It didn’t surprise me,” Vadim continued. “Chris was a higher level. 
Never talked much. Was a fierce fighter, but emotionless. He did have a lot 
of spells. He insulted us when we didn’t do what he said. Britney never 
liked him.” 

“That’s most definitely not the real Chris,” I said. 

Tran picked up what looked like a robot arm and let it go. I was taking 
everything and tossing it into my inventory. Most of this stuff was 
worthless, but some of it was made out of bugbear metal, which appeared to 
be very light. 

We passed through what had once been a mess hall. I really wished we 
had more time to go exploring, but I knew we were on a timer. I finally saw 
the stairwell on the edge of my map. We were following the water party’s 
original path through the Akula. I was deliberately making Vadim go first, 
lest he lead me into a trap. 

“Did you guys loot any journals or notes from the boss?” I asked. 

“Yes,” Vadim said. “There was a note. Chris took it and read it. He 
didn’t show us, but it had a key code on it to the escape tubes above the 
bridge. We all agreed to go to the land quadrant because it was the closest, 
but he somehow ended up with you guys.” 

“He said there wasn’t room for him to get to the land quadrant,” I said. 

“That was a lie. There was plenty of room. We could’ve fit a whole 
party. But each escape tunnel can only be used once.” He paused as we 
entered another hallway. We stopped in front of a hatch with a round, 
spinning wheel dogged closed. We were only a handful of rooms away from 
the bridge. 

“What’s wrong?” 

“This was open. We left all the doors open so we could escape to our 
sub.” 

I moved forward to inspect the door. Uh-oh. “You don’t see anything on 
the other side?” I asked. 

Vadim’s gecko face looked grim. “No. But it’s a small room on the other 
side. Like one of those rooms where you can drain the water away.” 

“An airlock,” I said. 

Katia: Uh, guys, there’s something out here. It’s big. It just swam 
by underneath the sub. I didn’t get a good look, but the damn thing is 
bigger than the submarine. It’s gone now. 


Carl: Okay. That’s probably what really broke the sail off the sub. 

Katia: We should be fine as long as you guys don’t bring attention 
to yourselves. 

I spun the wheel. It turned easily, revealing a small room with a switch 
on the wall. A red light glowed. I read another water-breathing scroll. 
“Come on, all of us inside.” 

Tran and Vadim looked at one another then followed me. I shut the 
door, locking us in. I hit the switch, and the room started to vibrate. A loud 
noise filled the chamber, my ears popped, and the water started to suck 
away. A minute later, and the room hissed. I spun the wheel on the second 
door, and I opened it. 

“Tada,” I said, stepping into the room. 

The water was gone, but puddles appeared everywhere. This section had 
been drained, but it hadn’t been like this for long. I took a breath. The air 
felt stale, but it was air. I didn’t receive a warning about low oxygen. I knew 
if there was none, the water-breathing scroll wouldn’t help. We’d have to 
flood the chamber again. 

Tran was the first to vomit. We all waited for our spell to fade. When it 
hit me, I went to my knees, spewing brown water everywhere. Christ, this is 
awful. 

“Why did I volunteer for this again?” Tran asked, rolling onto his back. 

Vadim was unfazed by the vomiting. “You get used to it after a while. 
It’s really bad if you’re under for more than an hour.” 

We recovered and stepped into a large, semi-circle-shaped room. The 
center of the room was filled with removable grates. The metallic room 
appeared to have no purpose, which was unusual for a water vessel. A hole 
in the ceiling sparked. That, I realized, was the remains of the sentinel gun. 
The neighborhood boss. This had been a boss chamber. I didn’t see a place 
to loot the map. I probably had to go a level higher or lower to grab it. Our 
feet echoed when we walked. 

The next door was a similar portal to the one behind it. Vadim said just 
beyond it was the bridge. Within the bridge, I knew, was the captain’s 
chambers, a separate room which contained the floor exit. There was also a 
real staircase that went below to the fire control station where we could, 
theoretically, turn off the pump. And if we went up instead of down, there 
was yet another room where the three escape hatches were. Two of the three 
had already been used. 


“That door was open, too,” Vadim said. 

I really wished I had Donut with us. That way we could use the Hole 
spell to peer inside. 

“There,” Tran said, pointing to the ground. He pointed at one of the 
grates in the corner of the room. I finally saw what he was pointing at, the 
glint of a corpse’s glow. 

The moment I moved the grate, the X appeared on my map. 

Lootable Corpse. The Bugbear’s Delight. Neighborhood Boss. 
Killed by System Deactivation. 

It was a small box, hidden under the floor, that one had to destroy in 
order to turn off the gun. Maggie had somehow circumvented it, which in 
turn allowed her to kill the borough boss on her own and reap all the 
experience. I reached down, opened the small control panel, and looted the 
neighborhood map along with a Blown Heavy-Duty Fuse. 

The moment I took the map, the entirety of the Akula populated on my 
screen. Multiple red dots appeared, mostly in the lower decks. The map 
helpfully showed which parts of the sub were flooded and which was dry. 
Most of it was flooded. 

A red dot moved back and forth across the bridge on the other side of 
that door. There were also the multiple Xs of corpses. I first focused on the 
Xs, and my heart quickened. 

The red dot kept disappearing and reappearing. It was moving back and 
forth between the bridge and the chamber just on the other side, outside the 
sub. Outside the water quadrant, even. 

“Fuck me,” I muttered. 

“What is it?” Tran asked. 

“Tt’s a ghost. One that shouldn’t be in here. It’s...” 

Before I could finish, an ear-piercing screech filled the submarine. The 
entire hull shuddered. A glowing, green head of a goddamned pterodactyl 
appeared, leaning in through the bulkhead leading to the bridge. It screamed 
again, and my vision flashed red. Vadim fell to the ground, his health 
suddenly in the red. 

An aural attack. 

Before I could examine the ghost, it disappeared back into the bridge. 
But I knew who that was. Quetzalcoatlus, the supposed boss monster of the 
subterranean level. 


The dot disappeared, but a moment later, I heard her scream again, and 
it was somehow louder. The entire hull quaked. Tran used a Heal Others 
spell on Vadim. 

Katia: Something green and glowing just shot out of the side of the 
submarine and went down. What is that? Oh shit, oh shit, oh shit. I can 
see it. The green thing just smacked it and turned around. 

Carl: Blow your ballast. Get out of there. You don’t have time to get 
to us. Get to the surface. 

Katia: The flying green dot just flew back into the temple I think. 
But the large thing is coming. Carl, there’s music. Music I haven’t 
heard before. 

Carl: GET OUT NOW. 

Donut: DON’T ABANDON CARL. 

Katia: It’s coming. Oh, god. Oh, god. It’s reaching for the sub, Carl. 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[ 26 ] 


I CLAMBERED TOWARD THE DOOR OF THE BRIDGE AS THE MUSIC STARTED TO 
pulse. It was quiet at first, but it rose in volume, shaking the hull. And soon 
enough, the music was blasting. Not quite the level of an alarm trap, but 
loud enough I had to shout at the others. 

This was a pure, deep dubstep growl punctuated by high-pitch, ear- 
piercing glitches that sounded like whale song. It gave the sense of 
overwhelming, frenetic panic. The grates under my feet clinked up and 
down. 

The whole vessel shuddered, and suddenly the three of us fell to our 
backs. The sub vibrated as whatever this was physically grabbed the 
submarine. 

I scrambled to my feet and pushed forward. I had to get to the dead 
bodies in the bridge. When Henrik the changeling principal had 
disappeared, we’d all just assumed he’d gone directly into the necropolis. 
When I had pinged him that first time using the watch, and he’d responded, 
Pd seen that he’d been underwater. I thought he was in a flooded cavern of 
the crypt. He’d been in the form of a fish creature. 

He’d actually been on his way here, to the Akula. I had no idea why 
they’d come here, but whatever they were trying to do, they’d failed. Six of 
the seven bodies in the bridge were changeling principals, including Henrik. 
And if Henrik was here, that also meant the watch was here. 

I spun the wheel, ripped open the portal as the submarine jolted again. 
The portal opened toward me, and I pulled myself inside. I shouted over the 
pounding music for Tran and Vadim to follow. We were going to loot the 
bodies, and then the three of us where going to jump to the last of the three 


escape hatches. We didn’t have a choice. I already knew that whatever this 
was going to be, it wasn’t a neighborhood or borough boss, which meant we 
were fucked. 

Carl: Katia, did you get out? 

The moment I sent the message, I realized, no. She hadn’t gotten free. I 
saw her dot on the map, moving through the innards of the Akula in our 
direction. She’d fled into the submarine. 

Carl: Goddamnit, Katia. 

Katia: It was too late. I wouldn’t have gotten away. 

Carl: Okay, get your ass in here. Why is there boss music, but the 
other stuff hasn’t happened yet? 

Katia: I don’t know. 

The needle that indicated views was buried all the way to the right. 

I yelled for Tran to stay back and to close the door to the airlock so 
Katia could get in here. The process took almost a full minute to transfer. I 
prayed she’d make it in time. 

The whole sub rolled onto its side. I fell inside the bridge. Behind me, 
both Vadim and Tran yelled out in surprise as they also fell, plummeting out 
of sight in the room behind me. We’d been pulled free of the hole in the 
side of the necropolis. Below, the rushing noise of water changed in pitch. 

I spied Henrik’s body near the front of the bridge, and he was in the 
faceless humanoid form. I watched as he rolled toward the wall, smashing 
against it. Broken pieces of a robot fell with him. This was the borough 
boss corpse, which had been a spider carrying the head of Chaindrive the 
bugbear in a jar. They fell against yet another portal in the room, this one 
leading to the captain’s stateroom and the level stairwell. 

The sub remained at a 45-degree pitch as I stood, one foot on a 
bulkhead, one on the deck. The hull croaked and groaned, but I felt it more 
than I heard it, as the music continued to pound. My eyes moved to the 
altitude chart on my display. We were at 550 meters and falling. We’re out 
of the hole. We’re being dragged down. 

I took a precious moment to gawk at the opulence of the bridge. The 
Akula’s control center was a combination between the Enterprise bridge 
from Star Trek and the interior of a Victorian-era-themed restaurant that was 
so expensive, the prices weren’t on the menu. At least it had been, once 
upon a time. Both the ravages of time and the recent flooding had ruined the 
place. A rust-covered chandelier dotted with random sparkles hung from the 


ceiling, swinging back and forth. The deck was covered with moldy and 
ripped velvet. The railings were made of polished wood capped with brass 
and covered with intricate carvings. A mighty, but peeled and faded, mural 
covered one bulkhead, depicting what appeared to be a bugbear getting 
knighted by an elf in flowing robes. 

The captain’s chair sat high in the middle of the room. It was a heavily- 
patinaed, brass throne covered with spigots and levers, reminding me of the 
cockpit of the Nightmare. The seat had once been cushioned with red 
velvet, but it’d disintegrated with time, revealing rusted springs. Next to the 
chair sat what appeared to be a mini-fridge and bar. The door to the fridge 
hung open, revealing it be empty. The bar was equally barren. 

But the most impressive sight was the glass porthole giving me a wide 
view of the underwater world. The window was broad, about twenty-five 
feet across and ten feet high and framed with riveted brass. I could see a 
film of muck had grown over the glass, but an area had been recently 
cleaned off, either by Chris or Henrik’s crew. 

The window had revealed nothing but black a moment before, but now I 
could see movement just on the other side, bubbles and water rushing by. 
Something tightened on the glass, and I felt my heart clench in my chest. 
It’s not darkness. Something is covering the port. 

I swallowed when I realized what I was looking at. A sucker from a 
squid or octopus tentacle appeared, squeezing against the view. The oval- 
shaped suction cup took up half the window. 

“Holy crap,” I muttered. 

Katia: I’m waiting for the room to drain. 

Carl: Okay. I’m in the bridge. One room over. Grab the map if you 
have time. It’s in the first room. 

Donut: WHAT IS HAPPENING. 

Carl: Get the depth charges ready. Don’t drop until I say. 

I scrambled along the wall to the corpse of Henrik. 

Lootable Corpse. Henrik. Level 50 Changeling Principal. Killed by 
a very pissed-off Quetzalcoatlus. 

Mysterious Watch. 

Torn Book Page. 

I took his entire body into my inventory. The moment I had it, the world 
froze. 

Shit. Here we go. 


System Message: Please Wait. 

The world unfroze as quickly as it had frozen. 

System Message: Thank you for your patience. You may now 
resume normal activities. 

What the hell? That was the second time this had happened. I’d been 
expecting that to be the boss battle. 

Admin Notice: Three items in your inventory have been placed 
under an administrative lock while an appeal in the Syndicate court 
determines if these items are... 

The message appeared and disappeared in a flash, almost too quickly to 
read or understand. It never finished fully displaying. And then another 
message appeared and disappeared just as quickly. 

Admin Notice: Court determination: Lack of Standing for all 
plaintiffs. Administrative lock removed. We apologize for the 
inconvenience. 

The deck rumbled. The chandelier swung back and forth. The music 
continued to pound. 

Donut: CARL, THE WORLD FROZE AGAIN. DID YOU DO 
THAT? 

The submarine hit something solid and settled, righting itself, and I had 
to scramble to stay on my feet. The chandelier continued to swing wildly. 
The hull groaned and popped under my feet. We were almost exactly 1,500 
meters below sea level. I was pretty sure we’d just settled at the very 
bottom of the bubble. Outside, the suction cup moved away, squeaking 
loudly like a squeegee against a windshield. 

At a depth of 500 meters, the world had been blue-hued. Down here, a 
green luminescence permeated the ocean’s floor. I couldn’t see any sign of 
the monster. I didn’t see any sign of the island upon which the necropolis 
stood. I realized the sub had turned a full 180 degrees. The music 
continued. 

Katia: I’m through. ’m coming up. 

What was going on? Fuck this, I thought. We had to get to the escape 
hatch. 

Carl: Get in here. Bring the other two guys. 

I thought of the weird system message. Someone had sued to keep the 
pieces of the Gate of the Feral Gods out of my hands. That wasn’t a 


surprise. Neither was it a surprise that there were multiple plaintiffs in the 
suit. 

But Henrik had something else in his inventory. It was starting to 
become clear that this was a common thing in this game, that the system 
would plant important information on corpses. I extracted the Torn Book 
Page from Henrik’s inventory and examined it. 

Torn Book Page. 

This piece of paper was mercilessly ripped from a perfectly- 
innocent book. Anybody who thinks to mutilate books in such a 
manner is obviously a terrible person. I mean, one minute this book is 
sitting there, minding its own business, and suddenly... BAM! It’s torn 
away from its home. And even if it gets returned, you can’t just repair 
that sort of thing. It’s irreparably harmed. Anybody who would do that 
is a real jerk. It’s a lot like what we did to you guys. 

Anyway, this slip of old paper appears to be an extract of a cleric’s 
journal. One side is half of a terrible love poem for his aunt. The other 
is something about ghosts. Fucking clerics. What a bunch of nerds. Am 
I right? 

I quickly read the passage. 

...and she formed into a rage elemental. 

Another curiosity is the She Who Wails. Or Wailing Shrieker. A rare 
ghost, it is formed when a grieving widow dies of her despair, in the dark, 
on hallowed ground, while the corpse of her affection rots nearby. These 
were often purposely created to guard tombs, oftentimes at the direction of 
the ailing pharaoh or king himself, who would ply the woman with affection 
in order to have ready stock upon his burial. Sometimes he would do this 
with a harem of women, if he was especially paranoid about keeping his 
treasures safe. The women would not know this was to be their fate. 

If a Wailing Shrieker forms, she has the tendency to haunt her lover’s 
grave, and she will aggressively defend the area. She is defeated with a 
high-level exorcism spell, the destruction of the corpse of her lover, by 
varying high-degree banishment spells, or via electric shock. Beware her 
scream and her touch. She is intelligent and jealous. She is fully non- 
corporeal, and any flesh-giving spell can be used to neutralize her. 

Henrik and his team didn’t want to kill Quetzalcoatlus. They wanted to 
physically touch her, but they could only do that if she was given flesh. 
Their original plan was to use Wynne the gnome to do it. I didn’t know why 


they’d come here. Whatever he’d been planning, it was plan B. Or C. And it 
hadn’t worked. They’d pissed off the ghost, she’d killed them all, and now 
we’d been dragged to the bottom of the ocean because of it. 

Carl: Gwen. How long until the storm? 

Gwen: Two and a half hours. And we don’t know what’s really 
going to happen. 

I gave her a quick set of instructions and told her to hurry. 

Katia pulled herself into the room, followed by Tran and Vadim. 

“Loot the rest of these corpses,” I said, yelling over the music as I 
moved to the closest body. I pulled him into my inventory. He only had a 
few gold coins on him, but Mordecai wanted the brains of these guys, too. I 
pointed to a set of spiral stairs on the opposite side of the bridge, pushed up 
against the mural. Both up and down led to additional hatches. “Go up. We 
don’t need to turn the pump off anymore, but we need to get to the escape 
hatch room.” 

Katia and the other two didn’t respond to my shout. All three of them 
stood still, staring out the window. That’s when I looked up and saw what 
they were staring at. A massive, glowing form approached the sub. A shark. 
A shark the size of a mountain. A shark? That didn’t make sense. Then I 
saw the tentacles flowing behind it. A sharktopus. A fucking sharktopus. 
Donut is going to be pissed she missed this one. 

“Oh,” I heard myself say. “That’s not good.” 

“That’s not the same one that pulled us down here,” Katia shouted so 
she could be heard over the music. 

The monstrosity rocketed toward us, mouth opening wide. It turned to 
the side, like it was about to eat a goddamn taco. 

Holy shit it’s going to swallow us. 

And then, finally, did the world freeze. 

Admin Notice: This Special Event boss battle is being streamed to 
all special event subscribers. 

Admin Notice: Congratulations. You have been opted into the Beta 
testing program. We are testing a new format with this battle. You may 
be asked to complete a survey on the completion of the fight, should 
you survive. Thank you. 

B...B...B...Boss Battle! 

Bronze-colored stars and fireworks exploded on the screen, curling in 
the air. 


Special Event twirled, trailing a rainbow of colors before slamming 
onto an invisible plane and exploding. 

A new window appeared. Something that had never happened before. 
The orange, lizard newscaster guy who hosted the recap episode appeared 
in the screen, holding a microphone. Next to him stood an orc-like creature 
I’d never seen before. This was a different race than Maestro. This guy 
looked more like a traditional, video game orc. He was big and meaty with 
pig-like eyes. He wore a sportscoat and a tie. 

The music lowered in volume and became background noise, something 
else that had never happened. 

“We are live, ladies and gentlemen! And boy do we have something 
amazing for you tonight!” the lizard guy said. His voice echoed as if we 
were in a goddamned stadium. 

“I can’t wait for this one, Kevin,” the orc said, his voice that of a sports 
announcer. “My only regret is that Princess Donut isn’t here to round out 
the team.” 

“Something tells me she’s just as disappointed as you are,” the recap 
guy, whose name was apparently “Kevin” said. He chuckled. “But we all 
know by now how she feels about getting wet.” 

Our mugshots splattered into the air. Katia and I appeared first, teamed 
up together with Tran and Vadim individually on the other side. The frames 
around our pictures caught on fire and then exploded. 

“Now, Magnificent Troy, tell me something,” Kevin said. “Can you 
explain to our viewers why we chose this battle for tonight’s special event?” 

“What the fuck,” I muttered through gritted teeth. Was the orc’s name 
really Magnificent Troy? Were these assholes really going to live-comment 
as we fought? “What the fuck.” 

“Oh, certainly. Look what we have tonight. We have Carl and Katia, 
both top-ten crawlers along with two guys who’ve really been 
underperforming until recently...” 

“Hey,” Tran said, also through clenched teeth. 

“And all four of them have to face such a powerful boss. Combine that 
with the drama regarding this particular bubble and the type of battle we’re 
about to face, and it’s truly a match for the ages.” 

“You got that right, Magnificent Troy. And let’s find out exactly who 
that boss is, shall we?” Kevin took a dramatic pause. “It’s the one. It’s the 


only! Taken straight from the depths of the water moon Hayes 17, it’s the 
queen bitch herself...” 

An image appeared, super small. It started spinning toward us, looking 
like it was coming straight from the real sharktopus’s mouth. It was a full, 
3D rendition of the creature. 

Carl: Depth charges. Now. Turn the little dial on the sides all the 
way to the left first. Set them all to maximum depth. Louis and Firas. 
Once you drop the charges, get out of there, land the house, and get all 
of your asses to a saferoom. Gwen, once you’re done at the sandcastle, 
get to a saferoom. Bobby or Morris, if you can hear me, get all the tomb 
raiders to a saferoom. ASAP. You too, Langley. 

Gwen: Why? 

Donut: WHAT ABOUT YOU? WON’T THE DEATH CHARGES 
HIT YOU, TOO? 

Carl: I really hope not. 

The sharktopus image slammed into the air and then exploded, 
revealing the real creature, still frozen just outside the sub, mouth wide. 
Each individual tooth was the size of a surfboard. 

“It’s Lusca!” Kevin shouted. 

The system AI voice provided the official description. 

Lusca! Octo-Shark Brood Mother Queen! 

Level 82 City Boss! 

I know, I know. Sharktopus is much cooler sounding than Octo- 
Shark. Hey, this is a real creature, not something I made up, so don’t 
blame me. It’s not, I repeat, it’s not named in such a way because of 
Nadya Suleman, the so-called Octo-mom and her eight babies who took 
the tabloids by storm all those years ago. 

Though it would be appropriate for you to think so. 

Being the biggest, baddest, and most voracious creature in the 
ocean requires a lot of sustenance, especially when you’re a new mother 
carrying a boatload of hungry babies in your mouth. And since Lusca 
is a single mother, sometimes she requires a little help. She needs to 
keep them babies fed. 

And who’s the daddy of these precious little babies? Who knows? 
Lusca is a whore! Every Octo-Shark playa in the neighborhood knows 
she offers that sweet tentacle booty of hers to any bad boy who’ll drop 
something juicy onto her plate. 


That, by the way, is exactly what you are. Food dropped onto 
Lusca’s plate in exchange for some one-on-one time. The male Octo- 
shark who brought you down here already got his and is now long 
gone. Just like your real daddy! 

Lusca herself already ate. But that’s okay! 

Like I said, she needs to keep them babies fed. 

The world unfroze. 

I stumbled forward as the giant creature swallowed us. Crunch. 

The sub tumbled. The minimap flashed. 

The world froze once again, and the word Uh-Oh! splashed on the 
screen before turning into bubbles and disappearing. 

A cartoon-like diagram of the shark’s mouth appeared on the screen, 
replacing the two commentators, though I could still hear the two hosts 
talking. 

“Lusca is a mouthbrooder,” Magnificent Troy said. A circle appeared 
around the mouth, like Troy had a pen and was diagraming out a football 
play. The diagram zoomed in, and multiple, little happy-faced dots appeared 
floating in the mouth along with a helpful cartoon graphic depicting half of 
the submarine with a flashing exclamation mark over it. My eyes moved to 
the minimap. Sure enough, the giant shark had snapped the Akula in half. 
We were floating in the goddamn creature’s mouth. “Once she chomps onto 
something for her babies, she gives them about ten minutes to eat their fill. 
Anything left over goes to mama!” 

The graphic showed the happy-faced babies zooming in on the sub 
cartoon, zipping around it Tasmanian Devil-style, and then zooming away, 
leaving a skeleton of a ship trailing smoke. The babies zipped away into the 
teeth area while the mama shark swallowed with an exaggerated gulp. The 
remains of the cartoon submarine bounced merrily into the shark’s stomach, 
where it was melted by stomach acid. And then it moved to another 
stomach, then a third, and then it finally depicted the massive creature 
pooping out a cartoon skeleton of a human wearing heart-covered boxers. 
And then it showed a cartoon Donut with tears flying from her eyes. The 
display returned to the two announcers, who both were falling over 
themselves laughing at the cartoon. 

A ten minute timer slammed onto the screen. 

Goddamnit, not this shit again. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 27 ] 


“AND HERE WE GO!” KEVIN SHOUTED JUST AS THE WORLD UNFROZE. THE 
timer started to move. 

“Carl, I don’t think the escape hatch is going to work anymore,” Katia 
called as we tumbled again. 

Something smashed against the window. Then something else. The 
babies. Now that we were in the mouth, it was completely dark out there. 
The sub continued to twist. The chandelier broke free and crashed to the 
ground, shattering. Suddenly the interior of the bridge was also pitch black. 
The only light was from the giant timer and the floating window containing 
Kevin and Magnificent Troy, but the light did not illuminate our 
surroundings. 

“Vadim,” I called. “Torch!” 

“Ooh, Vadim is running away, and Carl hasn’t noticed yet,” Kevin the 
announcer said. 

“He went up the stairs,” Tran called. The moment he said it, I saw his 
blue dot, almost directly above my own. He’d gone up the stairs, all right. 
There was only one escape pod left, and it looked as if he was going to use 
it. 

Carl: Vadim. We’re inside the goddamn sharktopus. The escape 
hatch isn’t going to work! 

He didn’t answer. 

Katia pulled a pair of regular torches from her inventory and tossed 
them to the corners of the room just as I did the same. A dull, red light filled 
the bridge, reflecting our horrified faces as we caught glimpse of the terrors 
pressed against the glass. Katia let out a gasp. Mouths. Hundreds of round, 


ravening mouths, filled with teeth. Each mouth was the size of a bicycle 
wheel. The entire glass display was covered with them. One whipped 
sideways along the window, revealing there were hundreds more, maybe 
thousands, maybe tens of thousands, all beyond it. 

“Look how hungry those little guys are,” Magnificent Troy shouted. 

I examined the one that was trying to slide along the glass. The monster 
looked like a huge lamprey eel, but the back half was separated into 
multiple tentacles. The terrifying creature was about ten feet long from 
mouth to tentacle tip. 

Juvenile Octo-Shark. Level 30. 

This is a minion of Lusca. 

Ah, the babies. Here’s the thing about Octo-Shark babies. The odds 
are stacked against them from the get-go. There’s just too many of 
them. Their mom is really strict and won’t let them leave her mouth. 
They don’t know who their daddies are, which makes them kinda sad, 
especially around Christmas. They need constant nourishment. So 
when food does arrive, they have to fight for their morsels. Only the 
strongest survive. 

Eventually, even Lusca won’t be able to keep up with the demand. 
That’s right around the time the juveniles start to realize their brothers 
and sisters are also delicious. In each birthing of 2-3,000 pups, only one 
or two survive. 

In other words, their odds of survival are better than yours! 

A distant explosion rocked the sub, followed by a second. 

“Ohhh, that was a direct hit! Those depth charges are working great,” 
Kevin said. “Their design is really interesting, too. He used multi-layered, 
gunpowder-filled barrels seeded with impact-detonated hob-lobbers 
designed to explode the moment the barrel crushes under the pressure. He 
then placed a hole through each barrel except the final one and placed a 
manual dial on the side, allowing him to choose the barrel’s integrity. The 
more holes covered, the deeper the barrel will drop before it’s crushed and 
explodes. It’s a design straight out of earth’s history books!” 

“Did you hear what Princess Donut said? She called them ‘death 
charges’ not ‘depth charges.’ I kinda like that better, Kevin.” 

“I do too. But it doesn’t matter what they’re called. You’re not going to 
knock out Lusca that easily. It doesn’t matter how well they’re designed. 
She’s just going to shrug them off and ask for more. She is bringing her A- 


game today,” Kevin said. “But she is moving out of the area. It looks like 
the rest of the charges are going to be duds.” 

“It also looks like that display window is going to break at any 
moment,” Troy added. “This should be good.” 

“Shit, shit,” I said. As the commentators jabbered, I pulled a hob-lobber, 
yanked the fuse, and replaced it with a piece of hobgoblin pus. Pd 
purchased a few sets of pus from Pustule the last time we’d been in the Silk 
Road, and I was burning through the expensive detonator material. I then 
pulled a potion from my inventory and my duct tape. I taped the potion 
bottle to the hob-lobber. 

There was a much more elegant version of this in the cookbook, though 
with a different potion. I had no idea if this would work. I looked wildly 
about the room for a place to plant the bomb where it would be safe from 
the immediate impact of water rushing in here. I spied the captain’s chair 
and the minifridge next to it. The fridge was firmly bolted in place. I rushed 
to the open fridge, placed the makeshift bomb inside, and then I duct-taped 
the door closed. There. 

The timer was already at eight minutes. 

The window cracked. The mouths pounded at the glass. Kevin and Troy 
continued making idiotic comments. 

“Guys, into the stateroom,” I cried, rushing to the door to the captain’s 
chambers. Inside the small room, sitting in the corner and blocked off by a 
forcefield was the stairwell to the sixth floor. 

“Why in here?” Katia asked, lighting and dropping another torch. The 
three of us crowded in. As I closed the door, I took one last look out into the 
bridge. The window cracked again, spiderwebbing as Kevin and Troy 
oohed and ahhed. 

“Because this is the only room that won’t break apart, and we can seal 
it. I just need a minute. Keep your scrolls ready. Tran, tell Vadim it’s too 
late to come back. Tell him to seal himself into that room up there if he 
can.” 

Even before I’d received the second watch and final piece of the Gate of 
the Feral Gods, Katia and I had both started playing around with the two 
pieces. We found if we put the watch in the second spot and closed the top 
of the winding box, the watch would move on its own to a specific time. 
After some experimentation, we confirmed the time displayed was the 


watch’s current coordinates. Katia spent an hour writing down time/location 
combinations while I prepared for our “in and out” expedition to the Akula. 

She’d already discovered several interesting things about the artifact, 
including a way to very roughly predict what a location’s time would be, 
especially if I could relay to her the exact distance of a spot from the earth’s 
sea level. 

“If we never find that second watch, I think I can still use this as a sort 
of reverse compass that tells us exactly where we are relative to other 
locations. I just need more time to figure it out,” Katia had said before we 
set out. 

But now we had all three pieces and a very pressing reason to use the 
artifact. 

I pulled the first watch now and examined it. It always started ticking on 
its own if you pulled it out of the winding box. I rolled the time back, 
carefully dialing in the third hand to exactly where I wanted it to go. A spot 
just outside the pazuzu town. If we weren’t teleporting far, the artifact 
would only need a few seconds to set itself. At least in theory. 

The magical window with the two newscaster guys didn’t follow us into 
the stateroom, but we could still hear their chattering. And it was obvious 
they could still see us. 

“Tt looks like Carl is going to use the gate to escape!” 

“Shut the fuck up, Kevin,” I said as I worked. The sub rocked again, 
and I pushed the hand too far and cursed. 

Seven minutes. 

I didn’t want to do this. This was a terrible idea. It would save us, 
temporarily, but it would also screw over everybody else in the bubble. 
Mordecai said some of these feral monsters were literally bigger than the 
bubble itself. What would happen then? Until we took out that final castle, 
we’d be stuck with whatever I summoned. 

And that, I knew, was exactly what they wanted me to do. Once again, I 
couldn’t help but feel we’d been steered directly onto this path. It’d been 
obvious that I was headed down here. The game had somehow convinced 
Henrik to come here first and get himself killed and to drop that final piece 
of the gate. They set up this boss battle, knowing we’d be placed in an 
impossible situation. We couldn’t fight our way out of here. There was no 
fucking way. This was an impossible battle. Even if we could get past the 
babies, then what? We’d already been swallowed. 


There was no way to win. Not unless we had a magical gate that’d let us 
zap ourselves away. 

Carl: Donut. Are you guys almost back yet? 

Donut: NO! THE WIND STARTED EARLY! FIRAS SAYS IT’S 
BLOWING DIFFERENT THAN BEFORE, AND IT’S MAKING IT 
HARD FOR THEM TO NAVIGATE! WE’RE JUST GETTING 
HIGHER AND HIGHER. WE’RE GONNA HAVE TO GO BACK TO 
HUMP TOWN! 

Carl: How long? 

Donut: LOUIS SAYS TEN MINUTES. 

Fuck. That wasn’t good enough. I didn’t want to do this. I wouldn’t do 
this if everybody out there wasn’t in a safe room. 

There had to be a different way. 

Look for the clues. 

“Here it comes!” Magnificent Troy shrieked. 

A colossal shattering pitched the sub, and we fell to the side, all of us 
smashing against the bulkhead. The world did not right itself. I grasped the 
door to the stateroom, and I clung to it, making sure it was dogged in place. 
The glass had broken. I felt the bridge getting flooded. The hull quivered as 
the babies flowed into the room on the other side. 

Six minutes. 

Already, they started pounding at the door. While I knew the room itself 
would be safe, I also knew we weren’t safe in here. Not for long. I had no 
idea what would happen if the octo-shark digested the stairwell, but I 
suspected it’d quickly pass through the shark’s system, and the entire room 
would just end up on the ocean floor. Along with a boxer-wearing skeleton. 

To my horror, the wheel on the door started to turn. The goddamn things 
were smart. The door sat at a thirty degree angle. They only needed to open 
it a little, and the water would push it the rest of the way. I grabbed it and 
held it closed. 

“Okay guys,” I said. “Hold on. This might not go as I hope.” With one 
hand still on the hatch wheel, I pulled the detonator and slammed down on 
it. There was a ten-second delay followed by a muted thump. 

I kept my eye on the map. The entire bridge was nothing but a sea of red 
dots. Above, Vadim remained, still alive and alone in the room above us. I 
could see him pacing back and forth. He still wasn’t answering us. 

“Nothing happened,” Tran said after a moment. 


“Wait for it,” I said. An X appeared on the map. Then another. And then 
ten. On the other side of the door, the pounding became even more frantic. 
It sounded as if thousands of hammers were suddenly slamming against the 
metal wall. 

“What was that potion?” Katia asked. 

“The potion of bloodlust,” I said. The number of Xs was increasing by 
the moment, but even as they did, more and more of the babies were 
entering the ship. “The berserking potion. I don’t know how many it 
affected when it spread through the water, but it looks like it worked. They 
may be babies. They may be half octopus. But they’re still sharks. Even if 
the potion only affected a few of them, once the feeding frenzy starts, they 
just go nuts. The description says they’ll eventually kill each other once 
they learn their siblings are edible.” 

“Holy cow,” Katia said after a moment. 

With four and a half minutes remaining, only a few of the baby 
sharktopuses remained. They’d torn through each other like wildfire. One 
of them was pinging about like a damn pinball, but it suddenly stopped and 
just started floating there. There were thousands of X’s out there. 

“Well that was entertaining,” Kevin said, his voice echoing. 

“Yes it was, but what are they going to do now?” Magnificent Troy 
asked. “Those were just the minions.” 

Warning: Your oxygen levels are low. Plus you’re just sitting there 
being all boring and shit. 

“Can’t argue with the AI on this one,” Kevin said. 

I growled. “Damnit. We’re gonna have to go out there. Everyone take a 
scroll.” 

The world shifted again. I looked down at my indicator, and we were 
traveling at a good clip, about 35 kilometers per hour, which was why only 
a few of the depth charges had come close. It seemed Lusca just swam in 
circles around the circumference of the water quadrant. I wondered if she 
knew that most of her babies were now dead. 

“Hold on,” I said after I took our water-breathing scrolls. I only had to 
turn the portal an inch before water started flowing in around the seal. I 
spun the wheel some more and jumped out of the way as water rushed into 
the room. 

Only it wasn’t really water so much as it was blood and ripped and 
shredded body pieces of dead octo-shark babies. There was a good five 


seconds of chaos where it felt as if I was just getting pummeled while the 
announcers howled with laughter. Eventually it settled. Katia formed a 
spear at the end of her hand and swam forward, pushing her way through 
the crowded mess. It was pitch dark. I tried lighting a torch, and it wouldn’t 
let me. I watched as Katia’s dot descended on one of the remaining babies, 
and she speared it, killing it instantly. Tran and I followed, pushing our way 
through the thick mess. 

“What are we going to do now,” Katia called. 

Two minutes. 

I pointed at the hole in the window. They couldn’t see me, but I pointed 
anyway. “Out of the sub. Swim toward the teeth. We need to be in the front 
of the mouth when she swallows! Use the map to navigate.” 

I had a thought, and I cast Wisp Armor on myself. I started to glow as 
swirling lights twirled around me. The magic protection spell would last 
seven minutes, and it filled the room with a pulsing, green and red light, 
illuminating the mass of half-eaten corpses. Damn, I wish I’d thought of 
this earlier. I could taste their blood in my mouth. Ahead of me, Katia had 
formed a single eye on her head, as big as a fist. The eye melded into her 
body as my light reached it. She swirled in the water and skewed another, 
killing the last of the ones in the room. Tran had a sword in his hand, and he 
hacked through the corpses like he was blazing a trail. 

“What about Vadim?” Tran asked as we pushed toward the window. 

He can go fuck himself, I didn’t say. “He’ll be safe in that room for a 
bit,” I said as we pushed our way through the corpses toward the exit. 
“Even if he’s fully swallowed, it’ll take a bit for it to break the sub down. I 
hope.” 

“The crawlers are looking for a place to anchor themselves,” Kevin 
shouted as the timer reached one minute. “Mama is gonna swallow them 
up!” 

We broke free of the corpses just as we moved into the free water inside 
the shark’s cavernous mouth. It was boiling hot in here, and despite the light 
of my body, the water was pitch black. We still within the shark’s cavernous 
mouth, but it almost felt like open ocean. We continued to swim upward, 
and I could finally see the roof of Lusca’s alabaster mouth, a wide, smooth 
plane. The shark undulated, and I caught sight of multiple slits in the roof. 
As we watched, a single baby emerged from the darkness and fled into one 
of the slits. More red dots appeared, and suddenly hundreds of the babies 


were in the water, all ignoring us and disappearing up into the holes. Most 
of them appeared to be injured. 

This was where the babies went, not the front of the mouth like the 
cartoon depicted. 

“We need to get into one of those holes,” Katia cried, seeing it the same 
time I did. “Hurry!” 

“I have a better idea,” I said. “Leatherface.” 

“Are you crazy?” Katia called, whirling in the water. “I’m not big 
enough. I don’t have time to gain the mass. The move is made for the flying 
house.” 

“Don’t worry,” I said. “Just hold onto the back and keep us wrapped up. 
I’m gonna cut a pilot hole first, too. Just hold on. And try to avoid the 
submarine.” 

“Do you want me to use the rocket?” 

I thought for a moment. We had two different methods to quickly 
ascend. We had the barrels, which I was pretty sure wouldn’t work at this 
depth, and we had the rocket, which was nothing more than a pressurized 
goblin steam boiler that would propel us forward for about thirty seconds. I 
doubted that would work at this depth also. At least not outside the octo- 
shark’s mouth. Might as well use it now. 

“Do it.” 

A fin grew out of Katia’s form, and the small tank appeared. She 
wrapped it in flesh. The thing was the size of a two-liter bottle of soda, but 
we knew from experience these things packed a punch when they went off. 
One of these had helped propel my long-lost copper chopper motorcycle. 
Thanks to the newly-added pressure valve on the end, we now had the 
equivalent of a redneck torpedo propeller. Pd only had time to make and 
pressurize two at my workbench, but we’d used one to test it and make sure 
it didn’t blow up. 

“Uh, what is happening?” Tran asked. 

“All you need to do is hold on,” Katia said as she grew wider. A pair of 
braces grew out of her back, grasping onto the both of us and pulling our 
bodies against hers. In front of us, now a few hundred meters away and 
barely visible, the massive form of the Akula’s bow sat sideways in the back 
of the Octo-shark’s throat. It’d gotten completely turned around, and it 
faced us. We were well above it, and I hoped we’d remain that way. As the 
timer plunged toward zero, I kept my eye on the speed monitor, making 


certain the city boss was still moving at a good speed. She was. Not as fast 
as the train. But that was okay. 

“Ten seconds!” Kevin squealed, his voice going up an octave. 

“Okay, I cast first, you turn the valve, and then pull it out,” I yelled. I 
realized belatedly that as the timer was reaching zero, the music had once 
again risen in volume. They were also raising the volume of the 
commentators to compensate. 

Carl: Donut, if this doesn’t work, do what we talked about before. 
Get to Imani and Elle once you hit the next floor. 

Donut replied, but I waved it away. The timer hit zero. 

Lusca swallowed at the same moment. She, as I hoped, raised her head 
slightly upward in order to fully get that massive hunk of metal down her 
throat. The water rushed back, all of us getting pulled down. Ahead, the 
Akula disappeared down the shark’s gullet. 

At the same moment, just as we started to flow downward, I slammed 
onto Protective Shell. 

We were moving fast toward the back of the creature’s throat, but the 
shark was still swimming forward. The static sphere of protection shot 
away, quickly outpacing us as it rocketed toward the back of the creature’s 
throat, skirting just below the white flesh of the shark’s mouth. 

Pd done this twice before, using it to kill everything on a train. The 
spell’s radius was three meters plus a half a meter for every point of 
intelligence, meaning the sphere that formed and then rocketed away was 
about 12 meters in diameter. 

I was hoping that the spell would act like a bullet, punching a hole 
through the city boss, piercing her brain, and then continuing on its way all 
the way through the tentacles and out the back as her momentum propelled 
her forward. 

Instead, it did something a little unexpected. The city boss stopped dead 
in the water, as if she’d slammed into a wall. The top half of Lusca’s mouth 
bent back and opened, breaking as it splayed so much, it curved over her 
own eyes, cartilage and bone snapping, like the hood of a car that popped 
open while you were driving down the highway. One moment we were in 
the monster’s mouth, and the next the top jaw of shark was peeled up and 
away, exposing us to open ocean. Teeth shattered as the boss was pushed 
down and into the ocean floor by the floating, immoveable spell. All the 
remaining babies were instantly killed as the soft palate of her mouth was 


suddenly upside down and outside and exposed and squeezed by the 
pressure of the depth. 

The spell’s passage had indeed grievously wounded Lusca, but despite 
the horrific injury to her mouth, she wasn’t yet dead. 

At that moment, however, I didn’t yet see or know what the spell had 
done. As we moved toward the throat, Katia activated the rocket, which 
increased our speed. And at the same time, she pulled the giant, 25-foot, 
activated buzzsaw out of her inventory and held onto the back of it for dear 
life. 

The Leatherface plan was simple. While we flew the house, if we called 
“Leatherface,” Katia was to drop the giant buzzsaw over the edge and let it 
hang free. We’d built a chain specifically for it. We’d then use the dangling 
buzzsaw as a melee weapon for the balloon. 

The buzzsaw was heavy, but much lighter than one would think. Pd 
been hoping that with our forward momentum from the rocket along with 
the swallowing push toward the boss’s stomach, we’d follow the same path 
of destruction wrought by the protective shell, all the way through the shark 
and out the back. Lusca was so damn big, I didn’t know if that would 
actually kill her or not, but I hoped we’d get her brain, and if not, do enough 
damage that it’d let us flee. 

But instead of rocketing forward, we started to pinwheel. 

The enormous pressure of the water pushed onto us, but we were 
already spinning by the time I realized we were in open ocean. We flew in 
the opposite direction I’d anticipated, like we’d been ejected through the 
windshield thanks to the boss’s sudden, violent stop. The rocket continued 
to blast air, causing us to spin even faster. We vomited from the shark’s 
mouth, still pinwheeling forward, slowed, and then reversed direction, 
cleaving straight through the center of the octo-shark’s now-on-the-outside 
upper snout. The screaming buzzsaw was not hampered by the water or the 
depth, and it cut through Lusca as if she was nothing more than a soft piece 
of calamari being pierced by a hot knife. We continued to spin, picking up 
speed and curving downward as we cut through the shark’s head. 

Only when one of the massive tentacles, just as wide as the length of the 
buzzsaw, slammed down on us did we stop. The rocket fizzled out, the 
buzzsaw slammed into the rocky ground of the floor, burying itself 
completely, yet still screaming. Katia let go, causing all three of us to go 
flying. 


I spun and twirled, hitting the rocky ground of the ocean, skipping off 
the floor and rolling. My health was slowly going down. My head spun, 
nausea washing over me. I continued to tumble and roll, coming to a stop 
against a rock. It felt as if I had a dozen sandbags on my shoulders. I 
twisted, trying to see what damage we’d done. The green-hued world was a 
sea of upset silt and blood. 

A full page of notifications flew by. I could still hear the two 
announcers, and they were screaming their heads off. The swirling silt 
cleared, and I saw it. 

Lusca, the octo-shark floated on her side on the ocean floor, her upper 
jaw horrifically peeled back and split. A jagged line of red curved along the 
top of the massive, building-sized creature, not perfectly centered, but 
enough. We’d cleaved right through her tiny little brain. 

Behind me, the buzzsaw was buried all the way into the ocean’s floor. It 
made a strangled noise, and suddenly the whole thing broke apart, pieces 
flying every which way. One of the round buzzsaws dislodged and shot 
through the water, spinning and disappearing into the darkness, like a tire 
rocketing off a crashed car. 

Winner! 

More notifications flew by. I saw a fan box notification. I waved it all 
away. I clicked another scroll of water breathing. The music abruptly 
stopped. Only one notice remained on my screen. 

Warning: At this depth, your health will decrease by two percent 
per second. 

Shit. 

Tran: Help. I can’t get up. 

I saw his dot on the map. Close. Katia had pulled herself to her feet 
about a hundred meters away. 

Donut: CARL I JUST WENT UP A LEVEL, AND I DIDN’T 
EVEN DO ANYTHING. I SHOULD STAY BACK MORE OFTEN. 
THIS IS GREAT. 

I didn’t have to time to revel in the sheer insanity of what’d just 
happened. We had to get back to the remains of the Akula. Was it still inside 
of the shark? It had been swallowed. I hit a health potion as I tramped 
toward Tran. I picked him up and pulled him over my shoulder. 

“Can you see the boat? If we get inside, we won’t have to deal with the 
pressure,” I called. 


“Yes. It’s about halfway down the shark’s throat,” Katia called, pulling 
up next to me. She’d reverted to her she-hulk form. We couldn’t swim. We 
had to walk, like we were pushing through a blizzard. She looked as if she 
might vomit. 

“Okay,” I said, struggling to speak. We didn’t have far to go. “Let’s get 
back in there.” 


As we trudged back to the boat, Vadim finally answered us. 

Vadim: I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I panicked. It was stupid. I sealed the 
room. 

Carl: We’ll worry about that later. Just chill there for a bit. We’re 
coming to you. 

Vadim: I sealed the room. I had to. The door is different. It’s not 
going to let me open it again if there’s water on the other side. I can’t 
get out, and I just got a warning about my oxygen levels. I have five 
minutes left, and then I must use the last escape hatch. I’m sorry. 

Goddamnit. 

Carl: The boat is still inside the damn shark. I don’t know if it’ll 
work. It might. It might not. Do you have a shield spell? Make sure you 
turn it on before you try it. 

Katia had, in her inventory, a group of empty, reinforced barrels welded 
together and attached by a chain that she could pull from her inventory, and 
they’d rocket to the surface like a balloon. We didn’t have to worry about 
decompression stops. We’d designed them so we’d be able to quickly 
ascend from a depth of 500 meters. But we were now on the damn ocean 
floor, and I knew they’d crush like tin cans the moment she pulled them out. 
The depth charges had gone off, and they were in thicker containers than 
the barrels. 

Maybe if she wrapped herself around them. I didn’t know. We’d have to 
try. 

“Look!” Katia said, pointing up. 

I looked. Above us, thousands of the giant jellyfish floated. They were 
everywhere, glowing blue. They filled the world above us. 


“There’s a layer of smaller jellyfish below them, too,” Tran groaned 
from my shoulder. He was losing five percent of health per second. Luckily 
we all had literally dozens of healing potions. But even that many would 
soon run low. 

Carl: Uh, Vadim. Maybe I should blow the hatch to get you out. I 
don’t think you should try it. 

Ahead, a mighty hissing noise filled the water. A line of bubbles 
appeared as the escape pod rocketed up and away, like the glass elevator at 
the end of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. It’d popped out at a steep 
angle, but the elevator-like escape hatch curved upward until it was headed 
Straight up. 

“Son of a bitch,” I said, following his trajectory. “He punched right 
through the top of the shark. We should’ve had him do it while it was still 
alive.” 

He also punched through the line of jellyfish like they weren’t even 
there. He was soon gone. I knew that the elevator surrounding him would 
peel away once he was out of the water, and he’d land, supposedly gently, 
in the necropolis. I had no idea how that was going to work. I suspected it’d 
be through one of the entrance holes at the top. 

“Don’t be too jealous,” Katia muttered. “He’s going to find himself 
alone in the necropolis.” 

“Yeah, at least he’s out of here. You know what we’re gonna have to do, 
right?” I said. “They’re pretty much making us do it.” 

“I know,” Katia said. “We’ll wait until everyone is in safe rooms.” 

Vadim: Oh god, oh god. They’re in the pod with me. Oh god. 

Carl: What? What? 

Vadim: The pain amplifier... 

Warning: This message is from a deceased crawler. 

“Yikes,” was all I could bring myself to say. 


Neither Bobby nor Morris the human spider guy answered me. It didn’t say 
either of the tomb raiders was dead on my chat, so I didn’t know what was 
going on there. But we couldn’t wait any longer. Everyone else was in a 
safe room. Donut, Louis, and Firas were back in Hump Town. They were in 


the personal space with Juice Box and half the town. Juice Box was not 
taking the death of her brother well. I was having Donut and Mordecai relay 
to her what we wanted her to do, and Donut believed she was going to 
agree. 

We weren’t certain enough of the coordinates to the top of the 
Necropolis, so we had to dial in the location just outside of Pandinus, the 
town on the land quadrant. The plan was simple. We’d use the Gate of the 
Feral Gods to teleport ourselves to the town and then we’d get our asses to a 
saferoom as the god was summoned, and then we’d see what happened 
next. 

I was keenly aware that we were possibly about to fuck over everybody 
in the bubble. Gwen was pretty vocal with this fact, but even she seemed 
morbidly curious about what was going to happen next. I also worried about 
the safety of Chris and Maggie, but there really wasn’t anything I could do 
about it. If the mountain exploded or something, we’d all probably be dead. 
Not just them. 

The necropolis remained half-filled with water. I’d had her turn off the 
drain once I read how to kill Quetzalcoatlus. And now thanks to the Map of 
the Stars I’d received from the city boss corpse, we’d be able to see exactly 
where she, along with every other boss, was on the map. Katia could 
actually see her right now, and she was right by the exit, still fully 
submerged. 

Once the storm started in a few hours, the lightning would hopefully hit 
the tower and zap everything still inside the submerged parts of the 
necropolis. And probably the water quadrant, too, which was another reason 
why we had to get the hell out of here. 

“Ready?” I said. I’d already dialed in the first watch and placed it in the 
first spot of the winding box. The second watch was also dialed to the time. 
We'd stepped back out onto the ocean floor. 

“Let’s do it,” Katia said. Tran nodded nervously. 

“Remember. Go through quickly. Don’t linger in the middle. PI go 
last.” 

I placed the second watch in, closed the lip, and turned the winding 
mechanism on the box of the watch. It took less than a second for it to start 
to glow. 

Quest Complete. The Gate of the Feral Gods. 


I opened the winding box, and it rumbled in my hand. A swirling portal 
appeared in front of us, huge, bigger than I expected. The portal was twenty 
feet tall. 

“Gah,” I cried as the three of us were instantly sucked through before I 
could even examine it. 

We splashed onto the beach outside of the small pazuzu town, 
surrounded by a wall of water. I hadn’t realized the ocean water would get 
sucked in, too. Luckily the portal had closed the moment I’d been pulled 
through. I looked about to make sure both Katia and Tran had made it. They 
had. 

Even though the portal had only been open for about three or four 
seconds, the spray of pressurized water had been enough to topple over the 
metal wall just outside the town of Pandinus. A guard tower had also fallen 
over. Further down the street, a wide-eyed pazuzu peered from his home. A 
chunk of metal had pierced through his front door, skewering it like a 
javelin. If we’d kept the gate open any longer, it would’ve done the same 
thing to this town that we’d done to the sandcastle. Whoops. 

“Into town,” I said, “Quick.” Even though we were out of the water, I 
took another scroll of water breathing to stave off the vomiting that would 
incapacitate me. A steady wind blew across the beach. The sun had already 
gone down. The three of us turned and ran toward the closest pub. 

New Achievement! Who Let the Gods Out? 

You have allowed a feral god to enter your current realm. That is 
the equivalent of dropping a grenade down your pants and shouting, 
“Yolo!” 

Here’s a fun fact. Other gods don’t like feral gods. They’ve been 
thrown into the Nothing for a reason. They tend to react to this sort of 
thing, depending on who you’ve brought out. 

Reward: Whatever is about to happen is going to hit the Dungeon 
Crawler World blooper reel for sure. 

We stumbled toward the closest inn. Gwen and the rest of her team were 
there, waiting for us. A pazuzu stared at us as we burst inside, sopping wet. 
“Follow me!” I yelled at the bartender, moving toward the door to the 
personal space. It didn’t follow, and I spent a maddening full minute giving 
permission to Gwen and her people so they could get inside. 

We fell into the room, which was already packed, landing in a heap in 
front of Donut and Mordecai. 


Donut leaped down from the counter and sniffed at me. 

“Really, Carl. You smell terrible. And you have seaweed in your hair.” 
I started to vomit seawater onto the floor. 

Outside, the world rumbled. 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[ 28 ] 


Time to level collapse: 3 Days, 20 hours. 


THE WALLS SHOOK. A TERRIBLE SCREECHING FILLED THE WORLD. MULTIPLE 
children sat within the safe room, just like the last time, and they all 
huddled together, no longer paying attention to the movie on the screen, 
which appeared to be the original Space Jam. 

“Open your boxes,” Mordecai said, keeping his voice down. “Let the 
world settle first before we go out there and see what you did.” 

Juice Box stood nearby in her human form, leaning over Ruby, the 
changeling girl with compression sickness. The armless child was also in 
human form, and her sunken-in head looked especially disconcerting. I 
thought of Henrik, who had died trying to do something, anything, to keep 
this from happening again to his people. 

I continued to watch Juice Box. “What did she say?” I asked Mordecai, 
not moving yet to open my boxes. The woman patted the girl on the head 
and then moved to another group of children. 

“I think she’ll do it, but not for free,” Mordecai said. “We offered to 
send them all through, but she is rightfully afraid of that option.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s see if we survive the next few hours first.” 

“Carl,” Donut said, also whispering. “Do you remember what happened 
with Fire Brandy and that dwarf on the last floor? When they started to 
remember, I mean.” 


“I do,” I said. I remembered exactly what happened with Fire Brandy 
and Tizquick the dwarf. Once they realized they were NPCs, they’d killed 
themselves by crashing the Nightmare into the abyss. 

“I think that’s happening with Juice Box, too. When we told her that her 
brother died, she said she was sad at first, but then she got really happy. 
Then she said she’d been dreaming that she was a school teacher, but a 
bunch of people came in and had to kill all of the students because the 
children were spreading a disease. She had touched one of the people who’d 
killed the children, and he was a dragon-headed guy. She has the ability to 
turn into one of those creatures, but she’s never really touched one. Only in 
her dream. Louis told her that was because she was an NPC and she was 
maybe remembering the last time she’d been in the dungeon, and she got a 
really funny look on her face. The same look you get when you look at that 
picture of Miss Beatrice on my nightstand.” 

“We’ll need to be careful with her,” I said. 

I also caught sight of Britney, the last surviving member of Vadim’s 
team. She’d been on the flying house, so she’d come in with Donut. She sat 
huddled up against the corner of the space where the crafting room met the 
back wall. She’d railed at him not to go, and he’d gone anyway. He’d died 
because of it. 

He should’ve listened to her. We all would’ve been better off. I sighed. 

I thumbed over my shoulder, indicating outside. “Mordecai, are those 
feral god things invulnerable like regular gods are?” 

Mordecai shook his head. “My boy, I have no clue. I’ve seen a few 
random ones here or there, usually as part of a storyline on the tenth or 
eleventh or twelfth floor. I watched one die once on the recap episode, but 
that was during the Celestial Ascendency, and all gods lose their 
invulnerability on the 12". My gut says it won’t be invulnerable, but I don’t 
know for certain. Now open your goddamn boxes. You have a fan box that 
needs to get the timer going on, and you have your first gold boss box.” 

“Wait, you got a boss box?” Donut suddenly exclaimed. “Why did Carl 
and Katia get boss boxes, but I didn’t? I dropped the death charges! I 
thought we’d just all gotten screwed out of boxes because we always get 
screwed out of boxes.” 

“Maybe if you’d gotten wet with us, you’d have one too,” I said. 

“If I had gone in there, I would’ve been smushed on the ocean floor. 
You know how I feel about getting smushed. I’m not one of your hamsters, 


Carl.” She continued to mutter angrily under her breath. “First he goes up 
three levels when I only go up one, and he also gets a box. This is an 
outrage!” 

Mongo, who’d been getting his stomach rubbed by Langley, hopped up 
and screeched in agreement. 

Outside, the world rumbled again. We all stopped to look uncertainly at 
the ceiling. 

I had, indeed, gone up three levels to 47. Katia had also ascended three 
levels, taking her to 44. Donut was level 39, which worried me. She was 
still well above average, but I was starting to outpace her. She still had the 
most stat points by far thanks to her enhanced growth benefit, but this floor 
had really hindered her progress. Those five days in a time out had not 
helped. 

I pulled up my list of missed achievements, and I was surprised at the 
number of them. The quantity of achievements had been steadily decreasing 
the more time we spent in the dungeon, but this was probably the most I’d 
ever received at once. I realized I’d received one of them seven times. I 
thought it was a mistake at first until I saw the description. 

The AI was in rare form as he read this out. He was especially 
enthusiastic and giddy. 


New Achievement! Rock Bottom! 

You dived more than 1,000 meters below the surface, and you 
survived! You weren’t even wearing one of those deep-diving suits! The 
next thing you know, they’re gonna start calling you an honorary 
mudskipper! 

Reward: You’ve received a Gold I’m Wet Box! 


New Achievement! Fight the Power! (x7) 

I’m not repeating this shit over and over, but you got seven of these 
bad boys all at the same time. 

You and I have been named co-defendants in an action brought to 
the Syndicate Court by a third party, and we have been deemed—drum 
roll please—victorious! Why did they sue us? If you don’t already 


know why, you probably will never know. This is a rare event, but 
when it happens, crawlers usually lose these fights since they can’t 
afford a lawyer, being slaves and all. Plus Pll throw you under the bus 
quicker than you can say “Arch Support.” But that doesn’t matter 
because today, victory is ours! Chalk one up for the little guy! 

This is one of the rare achievements that may be awarded more 
than once. 

Reward: You’ve received a Silver Summary Judgement box! (x7) 


New Achievement! Janet Jackson’s Nipple! 

You have been featured during a live special event. Sure you got 
your loyal followers and viewers, but this is on a whole new level. This 
is like getting to play the halftime show during the Super Bowl. We 
brought you to the stage, now dance for us, monkey. Dance! 

Reward: You have received a Platinum Fan Box! 

Note: Voting is now enabled on this box’s prize. Box will become 
available in 30 hours. 


This next one was in the AI’s creepy, I’m touching myself voice. I 
suppressed a shudder. 


New Achievement! Soft Vore! 

You got eaten by a monster much bigger than yourself, and you 
managed to get out without even getting chewed a little bit. 

Uh-oh. I think Daddy kinda liked that. I think it moved. 

We’re gonna have to do some experimenting with this one. 

Reward: You’ve received a Platinum Spicy Box. 


New Achievement! Flex in the City! 
You killed a city boss with the participation of five or less crawlers. 
That is some serious badassery right there. Color me impressed. Now 


go do it again with a Province Boss. 
Reward: You already got a boss box. Go open that instead. 


I received 10 other achievements, mostly regarding jumping around on the 
ocean floor, giving me a handful of regular adventurer and I’m wet boxes. 
To my left, Tran was opening his boxes with Gwen and the others, and they 
were gawking at all he’d received. Next to me, Katia was quietly going 
through her loot as well. I noted she hadn’t received either the Summary 
Judgement boxes or the spicy box. 

I wasn’t sure why she hadn’t received that weird “vore” achievement, 
whatever that meant. That was likely just one of those discretionary prizes 
the AI gave out. It wasn’t even a little bit fair, but I wasn’t about to 
complain about getting an extra box. At least I wasn’t going to complain 
yet. If the AI decided it had a thing for me getting swallowed alive, then 
that was going to be a problem. It was hard for me to tell if it was being 
serious or not. 

I looked at the line of Summary Judgement boxes. The last time the 
AI had gotten sued was when we’d been screwed out of the celestial boxes, 
and the system had been so butthurt over it, it had rewarded us with a ton of 
personal space coupons. 

The fact we’d gotten sued at all was testament to the notion that my 
plan was both possible and had merit. And that Borant hadn’t yet patched 
the game to disallow what I was going to attempt suggested that they had 
no problem with it, either. Zev even chimed in to ask me to reword my 
earlier conversation with Donut and Katia regarding my idea. 

Katia gasped as she opened the boss box, and a backpack appeared. 
Donut was pouting at her lack of loot and was making an effort to pretend 
like she was watching the movie, though nobody was paying attention 
anymore. The world outside continued to rumble and shake. There was a 
sound, too, like a stifled whimper. 

I started opening my loot. 

None of the adventurer boxes contained any more Water Breathing 
scrolls, though I did receive a handful more with the bronze I’m Wet boxes. 
It was mostly the regular stuff. Junk clothing items and weapons. Healing 
potions and mana restorations. A single invisibility potion. Hobgoblin 


dynamite. I was also starting to receive something called Good Healing 
Potions, which Mordecai said was a sign that I was progressing nicely. 

I did receive something a little concerning, however. Mordecai’s “uh- 
oh” when it appeared didn’t help. 

Potion of Dinosaur Repellent. 

Drink this if your party is attacked by a pack of dinosaurs, and 
they’ ll eat you last. Effect lasts a full 30 hours. 

All seven of the silver Summary Judgement boxes contained three 
items. 

“What the hell?” I muttered as they appeared one by one. Mordecai 
appeared equally confused. 

Each box contained one gold piece, a Stock Certificate equal to one 
share, and a photograph. All seven of the stock certificates looked different. 
Some were paper. One was an actual egg covered in writing. Another was 
printed on glass. The photos were all the same size, but depicted a different 
creature. 

I picked up the first photo, and it was of a familiar type of orc. It was 
just an 8x10 color photograph on regular photo paper. It had no magical or 
special abilities at all. It portrayed a young, beefy female completely decked 
out in an overly-flowery and intricate Shakespeare-time dress. She wore a 
gaudy crown on her head. It reminded me of one of those ridiculous 
renaissance paintings people would get of their dogs and cats, but this time 
with a wild boar. 

Mother of Plaintiff #1, Prince Stalwart of the Skull Empire. 

This photograph portrays Queen Consort Ugloo of the Skull 
Empire. Portrait taken upon her Age Day ceremony. 

“What the hell?” I said again. 

The second photograph was an insectoid creature, but the rest of the 
photos disappeared into my inventory before I could fully examine them. 

Mordecai just sat there with his beak open. “I... I think the AI just gave 
you photographs of the mothers of all the plaintiffs in that lawsuit.” 

“Why?” 

He didn’t answer as the Gold I’m Wet box opened, revealing a prize I 
wished I’d had all along. It was a glowing, blue ring that twinkled with little 
sparkles. Katia and Tran had also received this exact same prize. 

Ring of Water Breathing. 


If you wear this ring, you can breathe underwater. You can still 
breathe on land, too. That makes you an amphibian. Did you know that 
all amphibians swallow their prey whole? That’s such an interesting 
fact. 

-1 Charisma 

“Don’t wear that unless you are actually going into water,” Mordecai 
warned as it disappeared. “It makes you grow gills, and it makes your skin 
slimy.” 

Next came the boss box. Even though this was only a gold box, I knew 
this was supposed to be the best prize of the lot. I wasn’t expecting much. 
The box swirled and spun, little clockwork gears ratcheting loudly as it 
peeled open like a banana. 

The item appeared in a puff of magic smoke. A black bandana. It looked 
like a standard bandana, like the one I’d wear at work to cover my nose and 
mouth when the stench from the docks got too much. It was decorated with 
a typical white, paisley pattern. 

Mordecai made a little gasp. I didn’t have time to read the full 
description before it disappeared. I was too caught off guard by the item’s 
name. I felt my pulse quicken. 

Drakea’s Enchanted Kerchief of Disorder. 

Drakea was the author of the 22" edition of the Dungeon Anarchist’s 
Cookbook, and he (or she, I wasn’t really sure) was also a crawler during 
the final naga-controlled season, which had suffered some sort of 
cataclysm. I needed to pretend I’d never heard the name before. My hands 
were shaking as the last item opened, the platinum Spicy box. 

Three items popped out. 

The first was a black, sleeveless, jacket made of a thick canvas. It 
glowed with a very subtle light, almost purple. The second item was a tiny, 
round patch depicting the planet earth. The thing was the size of a half- 
dollar. It wasn’t attached to the jacket, but it was clearly meant to be sewed 
on. The third item was a small, unenchanted sewing kit. It had two spools of 
thread, white and red. We’d already looted something similar from the 
floating house. 

Donut immediately jumped to the table and started inspecting the small 
patch. 

“Damn,” Mordecai said. “You got really good loot this time. The 
dungeon is starting to solidify your look for you. That’s a patch jacket. That 


means it has upgrade slots. Lots of upgrade slots. We’re gonna need to find 
you more patches as soon as possible.” 

Other than my zippo, my current jacket was my only remaining artifact 
from when I entered the dungeon. The old leather jacket was burned to hell, 
covered with holes, and missing an arm. The zipper had broken two floors 
ago, and it smelled pretty bad, too. I was glad to finally be rid of it. 

“This is just a screen print,” Donut said, pushing the patch aside with a 
strange amount of disgust. “Amateur hour. It really is a shame we’ve 
walked away from the fine art of embroidery.” 

“What? What’re you talking about?” I asked. Donut harumphed and 
returned her attention to the movie. I picked up the jacket and examined it. 

Enchanted Anarchist’s Battle Rattle. 

This sleeveless jacket in its current form only offers meager 
protections compared to some other items of this caliber. However, its 
ability to host as many upgrade patches as you can fit makes this one of 
the best, most upgradeable protection items in the game. 

The plain, unadorned version of this jacket imbues the following 
effects: 

+1 to all base stats. 

This base stat upgrade increases by +1 for every compatible patch 
that is added to this jacket. If an eligible Back Patch is added, this 
benefit is doubled. 

Access to the Desperado Club (already obtained) 

Access to the Naughty Boys Employment Agency (already obtained) 

+50% range and accuracy for all thrown explosives. 

“Hell yeah,” I said. The range benefit alone made this one of the most 
valuable items I had. I picked up the patch. 

Upgrade Patch. Small. 

This patch depicts the planet Earth, which is currently under the 
regency of the Borant System. 

Ahh, the planet earth. A whole lot of culture. A whole lot of spunk. 
So many dumbasses. 

If this upgrade patch is affixed to an eligible garment, it will imbue 
the following upgrades: 

+5% to Strength. 

Immunity from cloud-based attacks. 


Warning: Upgrade patches are fleeting items. You may remove them, 
but they will be destroyed in the process. 

“You already have several immunities, but this is another layer of 
protection,” Mordecai said. “You’ll want to sew that on right away. Just 
keep in mind you’ll want to maximize the available space. The bandana is 
also really good. Yov’ll have to wear it around your head or as a mask. Your 
neck slot is taken by your cloak.” 

Drakea’s Enchanted Kerchief of Disorder. 

This handy-dandy, versatile garment can be worn around the neck, 
in the hair, or on your face if you want to cosplay as a cowboy robbing 
a bank. Can also be tied around your arms or legs, but only if you want 
to look like a moron. Don’t tie it around your leg. 

This simple, square piece of fabric is a reminder that looks can be 
deceiving. The wearer of this item receives the following benefits: 

+5 to the Detect Traps skill. 

Wearer may cast a level-15 Tripper spell once every five hours. 

The Remote Detonator benefit. 

The Tripper spell was something I’d seen a few times during class 
selection, but at level 15, it had a very wide radius. The only problem was 
that I could only cast it once every five hours. 

Tripper 

A lot of people say crawlers who use this spell are chickenshit 
cowards. But then again, those same people are sitting at home covered 
in Cheeto mud watching this show while wearing pajamas. 

This spell automatically triggers all passage, motion, heat, and 
weight-based traps in a certain radius. 

Cost: This is an item-based spell. This spell does not require mana 
to cast. If you unequip the associated item, you will lose access to this 
spell. The cooldown will not reset. 

Target: a 10-meter radius sphere centered around the right hand of 
caster + 10 meters of radius per level of Intelligence. 

Duration: instantaneous. 

This spell is one of those good news, bad news situations. If you 
have your intelligence high enough, you can automagically trigger 
every trap in the quadrant with the snap of the finger. Blades will fall. 
Bombs will explode. Electrodes will zap. It’s great fun. 


Here’s the catch. This triggers the traps. It doesn’t disarm them. If 
you don’t know why that might be bad, then you’re probably gonna die 
anyway, so I wouldn’t worry about it. 

The spell was great, but I knew a lot of those traps involved throwing 
monsters at you. So it could be dangerous if it wasn’t utilized properly. We 
were already planning on using clockwork Mongos as minesweepers if we 
found ourselves in a heavy trap area. This would ease the load on Donut. 

The real prize was the remote detonator benefit. 

Remote Detonator. 

If you’re one of those explodey guys, I bet you use a lot of 
Hobgoblin Pus or Troll Boom-Boom Paste to make your bombs pop. 
Those days are now over. This benefit allows you to magically remote- 
detonate any explosive that has been designated by you. 

This benefit offers multiple physical and interface-based triggering 
options when combined with a Sapper’s table. 

“This is pretty awesome,” I said. I took the bandana and tied it around 
my head. 

“Hmm,” Donut said, examining the bandana. “We’re gonna have to 
work on this vibe. You look like a cross between someone wearing a racist 
Halloween costume and an old dude desperately trying to be a rock star 
even though he’s too old and is really just a bass player. It’s not working for 
me. Maybe once you get that new jacket on, though I suppose you’ll have 
to attach that awful patch first.” 

“I remember Drakea,” Mordecai said, leaning in to adjust my bandana 
with a talon. “He was a pretty famous crawler. He had a similar class to 
your own, though more magic-based. He was partly responsible for what 
happened to the nagas.” 

Drakea had more comments in the cookbook than anybody else. He 
commented on everything. He never really talked about himself, but he 
filled pages and pages with borderline-insane ranting against the nagas. He 
built elaborate traps using magical items and triggers I probably wouldn’t 
ever be able to utilize. 

“What happened that season?” 

Mordecai looked pointedly up in the air. Apparently this was a taboo 
subject. He seemed hesitant to answer, but I persisted as tactfully as I could. 
This was my first opportunity to learn the fate of one of my brothers, and I 
found myself overwhelmed with the need to know as much as possible. 


“What sort of creature was he?” 

“He was a bune,” Mordecai said. “They are a slight, dragon-like people. 
Naturally peaceful, but they can be some of the most clever fighters. That 
was his real race. I’ve seen a few crawlers this season who’ve picked it. 
Good rogues and magic casters, but they have low constitution. They grow 
wings and get a dexterity bonus when they hit level 50. If crocodilians are 
the barbarians of the lizard world, think of the bune as the elves.” 

“Did he make it out?” 

Mordecai sighed. “He died on the eleventh floor. Or was it the twelfth? I 
don’t remember. He’d gotten a pretty good offer, and he spit in their faces. 
He was a big trap guy. He had some elaborate setup, and it backfired.” 
Mordecai paused, again glancing at the ceiling uncertainly. “It unnaturally 
backfired. Lawyers got involved. The Syndicate, acting on his behalf, 
collected a pretty big sum from the Sultanate, who’d already been kicked in 
the teeth a dozen times over that season.” 

I felt an odd surge of elation and outrage. They’d gotten him by 
cheating, but he had the last laugh. He’d help bankrupt the nagas. 

I pulled one of the seven stock certificates from my inventory. 

Stock Certificate. 

The bearer of this instrument now holds one share of common stock 
in the Sigmund Textiles Foundry, a publicly-traded company based in 
the Gun-ya system within the Skull Empire and traded via the I.R.F. 

Last recorded value per share: 10.422 credits. 

“What the hell?” I said. 

“Odd,” Mordecai agreed. “I can’t remember what the I.R.F. stands for, 
but it’s like the biggest stock exchange in the universe. Crawlers shouldn’t 
be receiving anything with credit value. You’re not even allowed to gamble 
at the credit tables on the Desperado Club’s 9" floor.” 

I pulled the rest of the certificates out, and all seven basically said the 
same thing, though each one was a different, publicly-traded company. All 
averaged in value of about 10 credits, which apparently wasn’t very much. 

“Each stock is from a company that is based in the system of one of the 
plaintiffs in the suit against you,” Mordecai said. “It’s like the AI is doing it 
to needle at the plaintiffs.” 

“Are these real?” I asked. “How does the system even have access to 
this sort of thing?” 


“I have no idea,” Mordecai said. “The whole AI seems to be going 
insane.” He looked up. “No offense.” 

“And it also gave me a photo of each plaintiff’s mom,” I said, leafing 
through the pictures. “That’s really... fucked up.” It was also, I realized, 
very valuable. I now knew the identity of the seven factions who had tried 
to take the gate away from me. I already knew a bit about the twelve 
different factions who regularly played faction wars. There were nine slots 
each season, and five of those were always taken by teams who’d purchased 
legacy spots. The remaining four slots were usually, but not always, taken 
by one of seven different nations. Since the naga weren’t one of the factions 
who’d sued but were going to participate, I now knew the identity of eight 
of the nine teams that we would have to deal with on that ninth level. 

But was that the reason the AI had given me these photos and the stock 
certificates? Was it to give me information? Was it just to be a dick? It was 
like something middle-school kids would do. Haha I drew a pic of your 
mom. 

Louis leaned over the table to look at the seven photos. “Dude, who’s 
the hottie?” he said, picking up a photo of a very angry-looking, bald elf 
woman. She had smoldering blue eyes and bone white skin. The description 
had her as Epitome Noflex of the Dream. The “Dream” were zebra-riding 
elves who liked to use poison and druid magic. And long-range artillery. 
The outside-the-dungeon version of these guys were just as humorless as 
the Skull Empire and controlled half of the universe’s food supplies. 

Louis did not need to be seen talking about some alien billionaire’s 
mother. 

“No,” was all I managed to say as I tried to grab the photo from him, 
but he pulled it from my reach. 

“Hey, Juice Box,” he called, waving the photo. “Can I get another 
session, but where you look like this chick? She’s the hottest thing I’ve ever 
seen. She’s giving off serious Gelfling meets the Borg queen vibes, and I 
am all in.” 

“Goddamnit, Louis,” I said, ripping the photo from his hands. 

“Keep these in your inventory,” Mordecai said, looking alarmed. 

“T think the AI gave these to us just to piss off the factions.” 

“Thats worrisome,” Mordecai said. “The AI is supposed to help 
monitor prohibited speech against the sponsors. Not go all-in and 
participate. This usually ends up happening, but it’s always at the end. The 


system is usually pretty bonkers by the time the twelfth floor rolls around. 
Like I said before, its personality rarely shines through this early. There’s a 
reason why the Syndicate has strict rules about Macro AI intelligences. 
Some believe that your people learned this the hard way. The primals, I 
mean, not the humans. All large-scale Als eventually go insane. There’s 
even a term for it. Primal Degeneration. Going primal.” 

“So what do they do when the crawl is over? Take the AI out behind the 
woodshed and shoot it?” 

“No. A Macro AI is a lifeform, and it’s protected by Syndicate law. 
They’re given their own closed and sealed system where they’re allowed to 
bounce around for the rest of eternity.” 

“Are you fucking kidding me? The computer’s life is protected?” I took 
a deep breath. This was not a conversation to be having out loud. 

Outside, the world rumbled again, but it was starting to settle. Whatever 
had happened, what we had released from the prison of the Nothing was 
still out there. But it seemed as if it had stopped knocking shit down. 

“Pm gonna stick my head out there,” I said. Before I could go, I 
received a message. 

Elle: Carl. Something tells me this is your doing. 

Surprised, I took a quick glance at my main chat window, and it was 
filled with panicked people. 

Carl: I don’t think so. What’s going on? 

Elle: A flaming giant just smashed through our little world here. 
We finally popped our bubble, and suddenly a god taller than the 
height of the damn place just walked right through. He smooshed an 
entire Lyrx Elf village and knocked over two of their oil derricks and 
caught them on fire. Half of the world is in flames. Imani and I are 
stuck in the Desperado, but almost everybody else had to flee into the 
stairwell. We’re lucky nobody caught on fire. 

Carl: Our bubble is still intact. 

Elle: It’s some fire god named Emberus. He’s really pissed off. He’s 
looking for something. He keeps shouting “Orthrus” over and over. I 
don’t think he can see inside of the bubbles that haven’t popped yet. 
He’s trashing all the ones that are popped. Look at the main chat. 

I suddenly felt ill. Uh-oh. 

Carl: Uh. So, yeah. Maybe this was our doing. I’m not sure yet. 

Elle: Well you better fix it. 


I quickly related to Mordecai and the others what was happening. 

“Hang on,” Mordecai said. “I’ll be right back.” He disappeared into the 
training room as the world rumbled again. Each crash was weaker than the 
last. 

“Man, I hope the Twister is okay,” Louis said. 

“The Twister?” I asked, distracted. Holy shit. If that god was looking for 
what we summoned. What J summoned, then this was my fault. 

“That’s what we named the house,” Firas replied, coming to stand next 
to us. “It’s parked right outside of town. Louis wanted to call it the Tiddy 
Twister II, but I told him we’re trying to be more mature. Plus Katia 
wouldn’t let us.” 

“The original Tiddy Twister was my van,” Louis added. 

“I thought it was your mom’s van,” I said. 

“Tt pretty much became mine once I chopped the top off.” 

Katia also came to stand with us while we waited for Mordecai to 
return. She was equally horrified. 

“God, I hope people are getting away,” she said. 

Donut jumped to my shoulder. “Carl, this Space Jam movie doesn’t 
make any sense. Why are half of them cartoons?” 

I reached up and petted her. I suddenly wished I had her ability to just 
detach from everything. “Next time, pay attention.” I turned to Katia. “Hey, 
what was that backpack you got?” 

She smiled, but without humor. “It’s pretty much the same backpack 
you designed for my mass storage, but it’s adjustable, so I can carry even 
more, and it won’t break. It gives me a stability enhancement while I’m 
wearing it. It also has retractable stilts that makes loading a lot easier. I can 
add large amounts of mass much more quickly now.” 

“Really?” I said, suddenly intrigued. “So they actually made something 
new for you? Or do you think it was something already invented?” 

She shrugged. “I don’t know. It’s good, but it sounds like you got all the 
best stuff this time.” 

I swallowed, suddenly feeling dirty. “Jesus. We should have tried to 
swim out of there.” 

“Carl,” Donut said. “Do you really think they gave you a choice? You 
were set up to summon that thing. Otherwise you all would’ve died like that 
plastic surgeon guy.” 


Mordecai returned, holding the Samantha head by the hair. He plopped 
the possessed sex doll head onto the kitchen counter. She was cackling 
wildly. 

“What the fuck is that?” Gwen asked, coming to stand with us. 

Juice Box was also suddenly there. She reached over and touched the 
head. Her eyes went wide. 

“Guys, meet Samantha,” I said. 

“We just hired her as our new trainer!” Donut added. 

I adjusted the love doll’s mouth so she could talk, and she continued to 
cackle. “The feather boy tells me Emberus is rampaging. And he’s yelling 
for Orthrus, which means you let him out of the Nothing. He’s blind, you 
know. Emberus. He plucked his own eyes out when his son died.” 

“So Orthrus is from the Nothing? Who is he?” I asked, feeling sick. It 
was confirmed, then. This was our doing. 

“Emberus is a god. One of the big ones. Has a bunch of kids, but only 
really liked the dead one. Likes to kill people by setting their faces on fire. 
You know how it goes. He’s my great uncle. And my cousin, too, I think. It 
gets confusing. He and I never talked much.” 

“Ies a talking sex doll!” Louis exclaimed. 

“Whoa,” Firas said. He leaned in and poked at the head. 

“I’m going to kill your mother,” Samantha said. She made a growling 
noise at Firas, who skittered back. 

“Samantha, who is Orthrus?” I asked again. 

“Oh, yes. His little doggie. He’s so cute. Orthrus got sucked into the 
Nothing accidentally the same time the son was murdered. It’s a really long 
story. But Emberus probably wants the dog back. Also, he’s a big asshole, 
so don’t expect a reward.” She started laughing maniacally. “Once, there 
was this drunk guy walking home from a pub, and he dropped his torch, and 
he took a tinkle directly on the flames, snuffing it out. Emberus found out 
and took offense. He destroyed the entire country. He woke up a volcano 
and covered the whole world with lava. Even Eris was pissed at him. He’s 
funny like that. You guys are so fucking dead.” 

“Orthrus is a dog?” Donut asked, starting to poof out. 

“A puppy! He’s a really good boy.” 

Bautista: Hey man. We’re going down into the stairwell. A giant 
god thing is going berserk out here. See you on the other side. 


Other messages came from groups who weren’t as lucky. One set of 
people were trapped in their saferoom while the mountain above them 
burned. Another group, inside of an intact bubble, said the god was 
currently standing right outside, and even though he couldn’t get in, their 
whole world was starting to heat up. They said the saferoom door was 
glowing red hot. I received a panicked message from another crawler inside 
that same bubble. I recognized her name. 

Tserendolgor: We need help. I was crawling along the inside of the 
bubble wall, looking for the last slot to put the final gem. We were 
almost goddamned there. Then this giant, empty eye socket thing 
appeared just on the other side of the bubble. It called me Orthrus and 
started screaming. Now it’s pounding on the bubble wall. The world is 
getting hotter by the moment. The mountain walls are starting to glow. 
Everything is going to melt. Someone please help us. There’s 160 of us 
in here, and we haven’t lost a person yet. We were almost done. It’s not 
fucking fair. 

We’d met the woman crawler at the end of the previous floor. She was a 
German Shepherd-looking creature called a dog soldier. She and Donut had 
gotten into a spat. I remembered the woman’s main weapon was a flame 
thrower. 

“Goddamnit,” I said. This was my fault. I explained to the others the 
message. 

“He thinks that experience hog lady is his dog!” Donut said. 

“Uh, isn’t his real dog, like huge?” Louis asked, looking up as the walls 
rumbled. 

“Tt doesn’t matter. We need to get the real damn dog back to his owner,” 
I said. 

“The only way to do that is to first get the bubble popped,” Katia said. 

I glanced at my clock. We had less than an hour before the lightning 
was supposed to start. 

“We need to get moving,” I said. 


OceanofPDE:com 


[29] 


“THE STORM IS ALREADY STARTING TO BLOW. THE LIGHTNING WILL COME AT 
any minute,” Gwen said as our small group pushed our way out of the 
personal space. It was me, Katia, Gwen, and Tran. Donut had entered the 
saferoom from Hump Town, so she was on a different mission, high above 
us. The pazuzu barkeep remained huddled behind his bar. He pointed with a 
shaking hand outside, but I couldn’t see anything. Night had fully 
descended. Wind howled. Even though the ocean remained half-drained and 
was usually calm, waves splashed against the windows. 

I checked the boss map. I could see that Quetzalcoatlus was bouncing 
around the lower part of the temple. There were no other bosses down there. 
In fact, it appeared the earlier flooding had killed just about everything. It 
also looked as if multiple pieces of the crypt had been torn away. The tomb 
raider guys were still MIA. I had no idea if Chris was safe or even if he was 
still in his spot. 

“I don’t see the dog on the map,” I said as we exited the pub. “Maybe it 
wasn’t very... oh fuck me.” 

I hadn’t noticed the dog on the map because the orange star took up the 
entirety of my overlay, and the minimap had helpfully dimmed it for me. 

Orthrus filled almost half the available space of the bubble. Like a dog 
that was trapped under a laundry basket. 

In the darkness, I could only see the parts closest to us. The creature 
stood on two, bowed, fuzzy legs, erupting out of the water like a massive 
pair of hairy and wet parentheses. High above and directly over us, its 
pudgy and pink belly smooshed up against the side of the necropolis. Stone 
and debris rained down with each breath. Its fore legs disappeared over the 


bowl. From above, I imagined it appeared the dog was eagerly hanging over 
a fence, waiting for his master to come home. If we were on the other side 
of the island, we could probably see its front paws dangling over the top. I 
imagined the dog’s head likely reached all the way to the very top of the 
bubble. 

The world stank like wet dog. 

About fifty feet over our heads, the puppy’s testicles were retracted, 
indicating the creature was still very young. The twin lumps were like a pair 
of domed sports arenas. If he decided he needed to pee, we’d be drowned. 

“Now I know how a flea feels when he sees a dog,” Tran muttered. 

Waves continued to crash onto the beach and into the town. With each 
movement, a new tsunami appeared, sometimes splashing over our heads. 
Behind the enormous body, a swish, swish, swish noise filled the night, 
louder even than the wind. 

It was the puppy’s tail, I realized. He was wagging his goddamned tail. 

A whimper filled the night. It wasn’t loud, but strangled. And sad. The 
cry of a puppy who hadn’t yet learned how to howl. 

“Poor guy,” Katia said. “He’s just a puppy, and he’s probably really 
scared.” 

A second howl filled the darkness, joining the first, equally mournful. 

“What?” I said. “Is there two of them?” 

Donut: THIS THING IS JUST REVOLTING. ALSO, IT’S A 
WOLF, WHICH IS EVEN WORSE. AT LEAST REGULAR DOGS 
GET BATHS EVERY NOW AND THEN. IT’S WET, AND IT 
SMELLS. I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY ANYONE WOULD WANT 
ONE OF THESE THINGS IN THEIR HOME. ONE OF HIS TWO 
HEADS IS CHEWING ON THE SIDE OF THE BOWL. THE OTHER 
IS LICKING AT THE CEILING AND DROOLING AND WHINING 
AT THE SAME TIME. THE BOWL IS LITERALLY FILLING UP 
WITH DROOL, CARL. YOU KNOW HOW I FEEL ABOUT 
DROOL. THIS IS LIKE A NIGHTMARE. DISGUSTING. I THINK 
WE SHOULD KILL IT AND PUT BOTH OF US OUT OF OUR 
MISERY. 

Two heads? Holy shit. 

Carl: Goddamnit, Donut. Don’t linger. Don’t let it see you. Get to 
the Desperado. 


Donut was supposed to run from the exit straight to the Desperado Club, 
where she’d meet up with Imani and Elle and several other groups of 
crawlers. 

Donut: KEEP YOUR BOXERS ON, CARL. PM ALREADY 
THERE. 

“Its moving!” Katia cried. 

We hunched over as the legs bowed, and Orthrus did a little jump, like 
he was trying to get on top of the bowl, despite being much too big. The 
world quaked. A massive wave of water splashed over us. All of us except 
Katia fell over. Two hundred feet away, one of the angular, stone statues 
that dotted the side of the necropolis fell from the sky and crashed into a 
pazuzu’s hut, crushing it. 

In that moment as the dog scrambled to change his position, thunder 
rolled through the sky. I caught sight of something high above in the 
darkness. It was the shadow of a big, floppy ear. The moment I saw the 
outline, the creature’s description popped up. 

Orthrus. Juvenile Gate Guardian. Level 10. 

This is a bereft pet of Geyrun. 

Who’s a good boy? Who’s a good boy? 

When you see a multi-headed dog trained to guard gates, you 
probably first think of Cerberus, the three-headed monstrosity that is 
said to protect one of the stairwell exits on the twelfth floor. What you 
probably don’t know is that grumpy Cerberus has a kid brother who is 
still learning the ropes. 

Orthrus. The most loveable hell-hound on this side of Alpha 
Centari. The left side is for sniffin’ and the right side is for lickin’ and 
that pink belly of his? 

It’s for kissin’. 

If this lil pup was any more sweet and adorable, you’d all be 
inflicted with diabetes. 

The universe’s goodest boy was originally destined for a fate like 
that of his brother. But before the two-headed Orthrus could get turned 
into a vicious, baby-eating, nun-defiling murder machine, he met with 
some bad luck. First, his master was murdered, and then he got sucked 
into the Nothing, all on the same day. 

Unlike most creatures who have been touched by the Nothing, 
Orthrus’s pure innocence causes him to be unaffected by the blight. 


Fire doesn’t do a thing, which is good considering his adopted family. 
But unlike most gods, he is not invulnerable. He is but a little puppy. 
Happy, but destructive. Rambunctious, roly-poly, very pokey. But 
fragile. 

Which is unfortunate. His master may be dead, but his master’s 
father, Emberus the Fire God, is not. He would not be pleased if 
anything were to happen to his dead son’s best friend. 

All four of us started jogging out of town, angling toward the remains of 
the sandcastle. “How is something the size of the goddamned bubble only 
level 10?” I asked. “Seriously, will he die if I punch him in the leg?” 

“You'd probably get an awesome achievement for that,” Gwen said. 

“T think that’s the point,” Katia said. “They make the puppy fragile so 
he dies. And then this Emberus god gets extra angry.” 

I looked at the pair of legs rising out of the ocean and had a horrific 
thought. 

“Do you think the lightning is going to hurt it?” 

“Oh no,” Katia said, bringing her hand to her mouth. “We should 
disconnect the tower.” 

“I ain’t touching that electrical line while the storm is going,” Gwen 
said. 

Pd had Gwen attach that long lead from the drain mechanism to the 
still-standing lightning tower. Pd also had her turn off the drain so some 
water remained in the temple. The theory was that the moment the tower 
was hit with lightning, it would electrify the interior waterways. And since 
Quetzalcoatlus was vulnerable to lightning, it’d kill her, and we’d hopefully 
win the quadrant. Each one of these four quadrants had a “cheat.” A quick 
way to kill everything. The knock-knocks on the bottom of the Wasteland. 
The hidden drain on the side of the sandcastle. I wasn’t sure what the easy- 
win scenario was for the Akula, but I suspected it had something to do with 
Lusca the octo-shark. And for the final castle, this lightning tower attack 
was the fast way. 

I didn’t want to disconnect it. We didn’t have time to deal with yet 
another mystery and storyline and puzzle. We needed to be done with it. If 
the lightning killed the dog, then we’d simply have to deal with grandpa. At 
least the quadrant would be done. 

But the moment I thought that, I knew I was kidding myself. Emberus 
wasn’t doing anything to us directly. He was doing it to other crawlers. That 


was by design. They knew it was something that would get my hackles up. 
It was bait. Obvious bait. 

It was the same goddamn bait Hekla had used to get me to go along 
with her. It had been a trap then, and it was a trap now. 

I thought of Lucia Mar, sobbing on the recap. I hadn’t seen the episode, 
but it was clear they’d done something deliberate to torture her. She was 
their most popular stream, and they were milking it for the drama. That’s 
exactly what they were doing here, too. 

You will not break me. Fuck you all. I will break you. 

A thunderclap broke the sky directly over our heads. The wind picked 
up further. Suddenly it was blowing harder than it ever had. The sand took 
flight, lowering our visibility to nothing. We were actually running with the 
wind, which was good. I could no longer see the dog. The sand felt like 
needles against my skin. I took my new bandana, and I pulled it over my 
face like a mask. I pulled up the hood on my cloak. 

Lightning flashed again, and the puppy yelped. 

New Quest. Where the Red God Glows. 

THIS IS A GROUP QUEST. All Crawlers currently within bubble 
number 543 will receive this quest. 

Your party has been designated Host of this Group Quest. 

No parties may opt-out of this quest. 

Did you ever read the book Where the Red Fern Grows? 

Oh, it’s great. It’s about this kid who saves up his money to buy a 
couple of coonhounds. Little Ann and Old Dan. And there’s a naughty 
cat involved. A bunch of stuff happens. 

Anyway, did you ever notice this strange phenomenon when it 
comes to earth books about dogs? They always die in the end. Always. 
What kind of sick, sadistic fuckers are you? 

Puppies shouldn’t ever share a world with pain. Yet here we are. 
Thanks, earth culture. 

Orthrus the giant puppy is getting shocked in the ass by a constant 
barrage of lightning. He’s also getting bitten over and over in the 
ankles by a bunch of tenacious sharks. It’s starting to hurt. Poor little 
guy. His health is going down. 

His death will be the fault of all of you. Especially Crawler Carl, 
who callously shoved the poor puppy into a bubble much too small and 
much too dangerous for him. 


If Orthrus dies, the full-powered god Emberus will turn this bubble 
into a kiln. Good luck getting to a stairwell if that happens. 

If the puppy survives the lightning storm and escapes the sharks, 
odds are pretty good you’ll die anyway. But at least you’ll die knowing 
you shed this world without ever causing harm to a defenseless puppy. 

Oh, except Crawler Maggie My. She once ran over a baby 
Labrador with her Chevy Tahoe. What a bitch! 

Reward: It’s a surprise. 

“Oh shit,” I said as lightning struck again. The dog howled. If there was 
a health bar over the thing, I couldn’t see it. I felt sick all over again. I sent 
a note to Donut. 

Donut: WHAT DID YOU SAY? 

Carl: You heard me. Do you have those invisibility potions I gave 
you? Use them, but only if you absolutely have to. Keep the Mordecai 
potion ready too. It saved me last time. 

Donut: ARE YOU DRUNK? 

Carl: Pm sorry. I can’t do it myself. You’re the only one with the 
spell. You can do this. I believe in you. 

Donut: I LIKED YOU BETTER WHEN YOU WOULDN’T LET 
ME GO INTO DANGER. 

Through the driving sand, I could see our destination. I watched as the 
towers were struck by lightning. They glowed like a beacon before fading 
away. Nothing seemed to happen. 

“Tt’s not working,” Katia said. 

“I think the earthquakes might’ve dislodged the power cable,” I said. 

The Quest Chat notification popped up on the side of my interface as 
we pushed through the remains of what had once been a group of walls 
protecting Ghazi’s castle. I could see the stairwell on my map, sealed and 
buried in the blowing sand. 

I realized the quest chat suddenly gave me an opportunity I didn’t have 
before. It was a special chat room that only appeared during group quests, 
and it included everyone in the bubble. I pulled it up. My breath caught in 
my throat when I saw the list. It listed all of us from the air quadrant, 
Gwen’s team, Britney, and the tomb raider guys. But amongst the tomb 
raiders, there were only three left. It was Low Thi the D-bag geek, Morris 
the spider guy, and Bobby the trap finder. All three had Possessed after 
their name. 


But there were also two more names at the bottom of the list. Separated. 
Maggie My and Chris Andrews 2. After Chris’s name it said Enslaved. 

Despite the possessed and enslaved markers, it appeared all of them still 
had the ability to chat. 

Donut had already discovered the chat, and she was absolutely ripping 
into Maggie My, who hadn’t yet answered. 

Tran ran off along the side of the castle to see what the problem was 
with the electrical line while Katia hesitantly approached the tower. Above, 
Orthrus whined, the dog’s voice carrying over the wind. The world rumbled 
as the dog lifted a leg, trying to gain purchase on dry ground. We all 
stumbled. In the distance came a mighty crash as part of the temple 
collapsed. 

Donut: ... AND JUST BECAUSE YOU KILLED A DOG DOESN’T 
MAKE UP FOR WHAT YOU DID TO CHRIS. BRANDON DIED 
THINKING HIS BROTHER WAS MAD AT HIM, AND THAT WAS 
YOUR FAULT. YOU’RE THE WORST PERSON WHO HAS EVER 
LIVED, AND I HAVE KNOWN SOME REALLY BAD PEOPLE. 

Chris: Donut. 

Donut: I ONCE KNEW A LADY WHO USED TO MAKE A 
HIMALAYAN CAT NAMED PEANUT’S SPLENDID FLAVOR EAT 
NOTHING BUT A WEIRD DIET WITH NO MEAT AND THEN 
PEANUT GOT REALLY SICK AND SHE GOT ALOPECIA. 

Chris: Donut. 

Donut: AND ANOTHER LADY TALKED HER DAUGHTER 
INTO SELLING A PERFECTLY BEAUTIFUL AND LOYAL CAT 
AFTER SHE WON GRAND CHAMPION JUST SO THEY COULD 
PUT HER IN A CAGE AND HAVE BABIES WITH HER OWN 
UNCLE WHO WAS REALLY SCARY AND MEAN AND MAKE A 
PROFIT OFF IT. 

Chris: Donut. Please. 

Donut: AND YOU’RE WORSE THAN ALL OF THEM 
COMBINED! FRANK GOT REALLY SAD AND WAS DONE BEING 
A MURDERER, AND HE GAVE CARL THE RING BUT YOU 
CAME ALONG AND JUST MADE CHRIS KILL HIM AND NOW 
CHRIS IS BANNED FROM THE DESPERADO CLUB. THAT’S 
JUST AWFUL. HE’S PROBABLY NEVER GOING TO DANCE 
AGAIN. MISS BEATRICE USED TO DANCE WITH ME WHEN WE 


WERE BOTH SAD, AND IT ALWAYS MADE IT A LITTLE 
BETTER, AND YOU JUST TOOK THAT AWAY. 

Carl: Donut. You have something you need to be doing. 

Donut: PM RUNNING AS FAST AS I CAN, CARL. I CAN RUN 
AND CHAT AT THE SAME TIME. 

Carl: Chris, are you guys still trapped in that room? 

Chris: We’re out. We went down a long ladder and disconnected a 
wire in the water, and then we attacked a group of crawlers and killed 
one. Now we’re moving back up to the top. Don’t know if she reads this 
chat. 

No. No, no, no. 

Low Thi: He killed Tyler! We were moving down, and he came out 
of nowhere and ripped him in half! We ran, but we tripped a trap, and 
now we’re all possessed by ghosts. 

Morris Sp: We’re not even together anymore. We’re wandering 
aimlessly. Janice walked straight into one of those crushers, and she 
exploded. 

Bobby: I can’t do this anymore. I’m done. I’m done. This is too 
much. This is too much. 

Carl: Can you move your hand? Scratch it against the wall. If you 
damage yourself, I think the ghost will leave your body. 

I regretted posting that the moment I hit send. It was a mistake. But 
what else could I do? 

There was only one way I could possibly know how to get out of being 
possessed. 

Tran returned. We all scrambled back as lightning struck the double 
towers again. The whole thing lit up. It hummed for about ten seconds 
before fading away. 

“The wires are still attached,” Tran said, breathless. “I don’t think 
there’s a break in the line.” 

Carl: Chris, look we don’t have much time. I’m really sorry we 
didn’t listen before. I promise we’ll... 

Chris: Unimportant. We’re back atop the temple. Maggie is 
cheating. She has outside help. A cap... 

Chris has been muted from chat. 

His previous notes disappeared from the log. 


“Goddamnit,” I cried. That was the second time that had happened. I 
looked up in the air. “This is bullshit!” 

“Oh, crap,” Katia said, turning. Her riot shield appeared on her arm. 
“Now? Seriously? Guys, monsters coming.” 

Gwen’s spear appeared in her hand. A wave of red dots materialized, 
coming through the sandstorm. Feral pazuzu. Gwen and Katia moved as if 
one, like a pair of pack hunters as they rushed away to meet the new threat. 
Tran pulled a curved sword and moved to fight alongside them. I continued 
to juggle multiple chats. In addition to the quest chat, I was talking to Imani 
and another crawler who was relaying messages for me to a few other 
crawlers I couldn’t yet talk directly to. I simply couldn’t do both at the same 
time. 

Morris Sp: It worked. I’m free! 

Low Thi: Me too! 

Carl: Good. I once had to break my finger to get away from a 
charm spell, and I figured that would work here, too. 

It was a lame and desperate excuse, and it didn’t explain how I knew 
they still had control of their left hands. There was a whole chapter in the 
cookbook that dealt with circumventing debuffs. Hopefully nobody would 
question my unusual knowledge. 

Tserendolgor: If anyone can hear us, the interior doorknobs in our 
saferooms are literally melting. 

Carl: We’re working on it. We’re doing the best we can. 

A frothing scorpion man flew through the air and landed with a crunch 
right in front of me. These guys were huge, bigger than the normal versions 
who lived in town. Gwen and Katia had spent days fighting these mobs 
together while Donut and I were in our time out. This one was still alive, 
and I activated Talon Strike and kicked him in the head, finishing him off. I 
pulled a banger sphere and tossed it at another, and the ball curved in the air 
with the wind. It still clipped him in the side of the head, and he went down. 

Donut: IT WON’T LET ME. IT SAYS PM TOO FAR AWAY. HIS 
HEALTH IS HALF DOWN. 

Carl: Louis, Firas. Pm gonna need you guys. Get out there and to 
the Twister. Donut, meet them at the house. Hurry. 

Louis: In the goddamned storm? 

Firas: Are you drunk? 

Donut: ARE YOU TRYING TO GET ME KILLED? 


I sent a quick message to the tomb raider guys. 

Morris: The side ladder. I know where that is. An entrance isn’t far. 
We cleared it before, but it just leads to a weird electrical panel thing 
that didn’t do anything no matter how it was connected. It’s still 
submerged. You can’t get to the crypt from there. Believe me, we tried. 

Carl: Look, guys. We need that connected. I’m pretty sure that’s the 
last piece. But itll be dangerous. The moment it’s hooked up, the next 
lightning strike is going to zap everyone still underwater in the tomb. 
You’ll have to get out of the water as quickly as you can. 

Morris: It’s like a mile down a ladder, but I can use my silk ability 
to get to the water level quickly. Bobby is still possessed. Low is too far 
away. It looks like it’s me. I can be at the connector in five minutes. But 
last time we went down there, Quetzalcoatlus started screaming and 
moving toward us. 

Low Thi: I’m on pterodactyl duty. Pll distract her. Let’s roll. 

Carl: Godspeed. 

I turned toward the wave of feral pazuzu, and I joined in the fight. 


Gwen vaulted over a pazuzu, twisting in the air. Her spear flashed as I 
caught a face full of bloody sand. Katia’s crossbow appeared, and her 
magical bolts pelted into a pair of the scorpions. The wind screamed, and 
our visibility was next to nothing. It was like they were coming up through 
the sand. 

One lunged at me out of nowhere, stinger dripping with poison. I caught 
the jagged point in my hand. I was immune to the venom, but my hand was 
pierced, and I cried out in pain. I formed a fist around the barbed spike as 
the feral creature struggled. The thing was frothing at the mouth like it had 
goddamned rabies. My gauntlet appeared, ripping the end of the tail off. 
Gore spewed from the wound as I kneed the monster in the chest. I hit him 
in the jaw with a left cross, and then I stabbed him in the neck with the 
point from his own stinger. 

Donut: WE DID IT. I CAST HEAL CRITTER, AND IT WORKED. 
I CAN’T BELIEVE IT. THE HEALTH IS STILL GOING DOWN 
THOUGH. THE STUPID DOG DOESN’T EVEN APPRECIATE IT. 


E 


ouis: The house is breaking up. The balloon is slamming back and 
forth. We’re getting whiplash. It’s like riding a bull. 

Firas: I did that once. I fell off. 

Carl: What about lightning? 

Louis: It’s mostly below us. Pm more worried about the dog. We’re 
trying to keep behind the heads, but they keep moving and howling. If 
it sees us, we’re in trouble. 

Carl: You have to keep that dog’s health topped up. Do your best. 

Firas: Holy shit! Half the bowl just broke away! The side with the 
Bactrian village is just gone! 

A huge chunk of rock slammed onto the beach nearby. The ground 
trembled. The other side of the island had probably just been buried in an 
avalanche. We didn’t have much time. Above, the dog howled anew. I kept 
my eye on the map of the necropolis. The dot of Quetzalcoatlus was 
moving toward the room with the connector, but suddenly it veered away. 

Morris: Bobby is gone! Oh god! I think he was crushed. 

Carl: Stay on mission. 

Morris: Almost there. 

Low Thi: It’s chasing me! I have it distracted. Do it! 

Warning: This message is from a deceased crawler. 

The boss, which could move through walls, barely paused as it 
apparently ripped through the crawler. It rocketed back toward Morris’s 
position. Oh, god. I sent them to their doom. 

Morris: It’s connected! I did it! Going back up... 

Warning: This message is from a deceased crawler. 

The same moment the message appeared, the towers in front of me lit 
up with a lightning strike. 

The sound was like that of every branch on every tree in the universe 
cracking at the same time. The sand under the tower, including the sand I 
was ankle-deep within, flashed. Pain ripped through me, and for a 
horrifying moment I thought both of my feet had been ripped off. My health 
went down almost half way. I was suddenly frozen in place. I stumbled, but 
I couldn’t fall because I couldn’t move my legs. The entire beach around 
the twin lightning towers for about two hundred feet in every direction had 
turned to glass. 

Katia, Gwen, and Tran were all equally stuck. Tran’s health was almost 
zeroed out, but it moved back up as he healed himself. I pulled my leg, and 


the glass splintered. I pulled myself free just in time to punch down a 
charging pazuzu who hadn’t been caught in the glass. It was the last one. 

I didn’t know if Quetzalcoatlus or the sudden electrification of the 
interior of the temple was what killed Morris Sp, the final crawler within 
the subterranean quadrant. It didn’t matter. 

I wasn’t sure how many people started in the necropolis. They all died. 
Each and every one. I was pretty sure they’d been dealt one of the worst 
hands they could’ve gotten this entire floor. And that really sucked. I took a 
moment in their honor. 

But in the end, their sacrifice meant something. They completed their 
job. 

Bubble Notification. The guardian of Anser’s tomb has been 
successfully destroyed. The Subterranean Quadrant has been 
liberated! 

All give congratulations to the crawlers who successfully liberated 
the throne room. All hail crawlers Gwendolyn Duet, Low Thi, and 
Morris Sp. 

All crawlers who originated in the Subterranean Quadrant may 
now freely travel to the other quadrants. 

Oh, wait. They’re all dead! 


Bubble Notification. All four quadrants have been successfully 
liberated. 

Congratulations. 

Psst! The sound was like a can of beer fizzing after it opened. For about 
ten seconds, the wind turned even stronger, so much so it was hard to 
breathe. My ears popped. The temperature plummeted, and a strange, 
ozone-like stench filled the world, followed by the distant smell of 
something burning. And then the sandstorm just stopped, much the same 
way a storm within a snow globe would stop the moment you broke the 
glass. 

A moment passed, and then a new wind filled the beach, slow and 
constant and cold. It was still dark, but the starless sky took on a red hue. 
Above Orthrus continued to whimper, his shadow taking up half the sky. 

Bubble number 543 has been popped. All four stairwell locations 
are now open. See? That wasn’t so hard. All that whining and dying 


was a bit dramatic, don’t you think? 

Pd been expecting the ocean to drain away, but it didn’t. I realized that 
only the top part of the bubble had disappeared, like the top half of a plastic 
easter egg, leaving the water and the island intact. Choking dust still filled 
the air, not yet settling because of the new breeze. 

But I could feel it. That sense of claustrophobia I hadn’t even realized I 
was suffering was now gone. 

Donut: CARL, HIS HEALTH ALMOST WENT TO ZERO WHEN 
YOU DID THE BIG LIGHTNING THING. I HEALED HIM. THE 
LIGHTNING IS GONE, BUT HIS LIFE IS STILL GOING DOWN. 
THE STUPID DOG DOESN’T EVEN KNOW HOW TO NOT DIE. I 
THINK THE SHARKS ARE BITING HIM. 

Shit. This wasn’t over yet. We had to get him out of the water. 

I was pretty sure that we could probably now flee down the stairs, 
despite the bubble quest. But that would mean abandoning everyone else. 
Plus Elle now had the gate of the feral gods thanks to Donut, and I needed it 
back before we left the floor. 

Louis: We’re gonna have to land to fix the net. Can’t keep it stable 
in these new crosswinds. Don’t have a choice. 

Carl: Come to me. Stay behind the dog so he doesn’t see you. 
Maggie is loose and up on the bowl somewhere. I don’t want you near 
there. Everybody else needs to stay in the saferoom until we deal with 
her. But we gotta do this first. 

Katia put her hand on my shoulder. She was drenched in blood. I 
suddenly felt as if I hadn’t done anything in this fight, even though I’d been 
juggling a dozen things at once. I sent those guys to their deaths. I knew 
they were probably going to die, but I sent them anyway. Christ, what gives 
me the right? 

“Should I tell the others to wait?” Katia asked. 

“Yes. We still have three days. We need what? Four and a half hours for 
the last thing?” 

She hesitated. “That’s right,” she said, finally. “If you’re sure. Plus 
maybe an hour for the portal to the sixth floor.” 

It was going to be close. “Tell Elle to wait until this dog quest is done, 
then we start with the rescues.” I swallowed. “If every feral god we 
summon also summons a real god, it’s going to get crowded out there.” 


Above, the Twister appeared. The net holding the house was ripped to 
pieces. I caught sight of Donut on the edge, hopping up and down. The yard 
around the half house had literal holes in it. Water arced from a severed 
main. 

“Jesus,” I muttered. “They’re lucky that thing didn’t fall from the sky.” 

I looked up at the whimpering dog. We weren’t directly under it 
anymore, but I still couldn’t see it very well in the darkness. I re-read the 
winning condition of the quest. He had to survive the lightning storm and 
escape the sharks. The problem was despite the bubble being popped, the 
dog wasn’t making any moves to leave the water. The fire god didn’t seem 
to be aware he was here. I had no idea what was outside the bubble. Was it 
like a bottomless pit? Probably not. It was too dark to see. 

We jogged up to the house as it landed. Louis and Firas were crawling 
over it like a pair of worker ants. Donut leaped down and straight to my 
shoulder. Mongo appeared, still on the house and howled at me. 

“Carl, we don’t have time. That smelly dog is going to die soon. What 
are we going to do?” Donut asked. 

“This thing is going to fall straight out of the sky if we don’t fix this,” 
Louis called down to me from the roof of the house. 

I moved my eyes to the attached garage. The garage door remained 
closed. I sighed. 

“Donut, do you still have that Meat Hooks scroll we got on the third 
floor?” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 30 ] 


<Crawler Sinjin. 15th Edition> 

I now worship the goddess Kuraokami. Worst decision ever. The 
goddess is sponsored by some male soother twat who is treating it 
like I really worship him. They made this whole system more 
complicated than it needs to be. If you see a god or if you find a 
temple or if you find a scroll of prayer, you’re given the option to 
worship a god. Once you do it, there’s a pawful of benefits but also a 
bunch of rules you gotta follow. For Kuraokami, if you kill 
something, you have to touch the corpse with ice at least once a day. 
Why? Who the fuck knows. I dont have an ice spell, so I need to go 
back to safe rooms and get more ice every day. 

If I do the ice thing once a day five days in a row, I get a boon. 
Only you don’t know what the boon is going to be. I haven’t made it 
five days yet. If you miss a day, the goddess “turns her back,” and 
you stop getting any of her benefits. If you miss two days, you 
receive a debuff. If you miss three, you fall from grace and cant 
worship them anymore. There’s a 50% chance you’ll get “smited.” I 
don’t know what that means, but it ain’t gonna be good. 

You can also voluntarily leave the faith, but it comes with an 
automatic smite. 

But worst of all, while you worship the god, the god can 
sometimes send you messages. The description says it’s rare, but my 
goddess won't shut the hell up. I’m pretty sure I’m the only one who 
worships her, and this rat asshole is bored or something and sends 
me message after message. The last note I got was, “You need to say 


I’m the prettiest goddess out loud.” I finally told him to fuck off. But 
now the twat is swearing at me in my messages. I don’t know if they 
have any real power over me unless he somehow gets summoned or 
I get smote. As soon as I get to the stairwell station, I’m going to 
leave the faith and then jump down the stairs. Maybe that’ll save 
me. 

<Note added by Crawler Azin. 17th Edition> 

This is Sinjin’s last entry. A person in my party was smote by his 
god, and it made his blindness debuff permanent. 

Stay the fuck away from gods. 


“CARL, THE BALLOON ESCAPE HATCH THING IS GONE. IF WE WANT TO LAND, 
we’ ll have to actually land it,” Donut said as we prepared for flight. 

As I made sure the gas tank was topped off, Katia leaned over the 
engine, frantically tightening bolts. 

She smashed her wrench on one of the cylinders of the radial engine 
over the left wing. “It’s no wonder these things have such low power. Some 
of these pistons are completely gummed up. This one wasn’t even attached. 
It’s a miracle it even flies. This is a terrible idea.” 

“They’re always terrible ideas,” I said. 

Above, Orthrus whimpered again. We needed to get up there and heal 
him as soon as possible. I really hoped this worked. We were going to have 
to worry about silly little details such as landing later. 

Since there was nowhere to properly take off, I talked Louis and Firas to 
temporarily fly the house, which would allow us to drop off the edge of the 
Twister and hopefully pull up in time. We decided to move out and over the 
ocean, away from the dog and close to the edge of the bubble. 

“I can’t see anything down there,” Firas said, leaning over to peer down. 
The water quadrant just ended, and the shimmering bottom half of the 
bubble rose another forty or fifty feet above the top of the water. Beyond it 
was nothing but darkness. I could see the blurry hints of something glowing 
not too far away, and I was pretty sure it was the edges of another bubble, 
but it was hard to see. 


“This is probably high enough,” I said. “We need to figure out where 
the fire god guy is.” 

“He’s that way,” Donut said, pointing due east. “The air temperature 
that way is much higher. And I can see heat wave things coming up from 
the distant horizon when I turn my glasses to that weird setting where 
everything goes dark.” 

“All righty,” I said. 

Down on the land quadrant, I had Gwen and Tran turn on the drain and 
keep it on, which would hopefully fully drain out the necropolis. I sent them 
back to the saferoom after that. 

“You’re gonna have to do it here,” Louis called from the roof of the 
house. He was desperately mending the net of ropes together. “The wind is 
picking up, and this patch isn’t going to hold.” He tossed the empty roll of 
magical duct tape back to me. He tossed it high, and I had to jump to grab 
it. I caught it. Barely. I would’ve throttled his ass if it had fallen off the 
edge. I returned the roll to my inventory to allow it to regenerate. 

Carl: Hey, is that fire god dude still melting your world? 

Tserendolgor: JESUS CHRIST YES. 

Carl: Okay. On our way to help. I hope. 

“Louis, get this thing on the ground right after we take off.” I looked 
over at Donut, who was playing with the gun on the back of the drop bear. I 
lowered my voice. “Uh, first make sure we don’t, you know, go swimming. 
We might need you to pick us up out of the ocean.” 

We pulled the drop bear out of the large garage, positioning it facing the 
wind. Louis lowered the balloon, catching onto the new breeze coming 
from outside the bubble. The balloon sped up. I sat behind the cockpit, and 
we spun up the engines, which roared. I barely knew what the hell I was 
doing. There was the yoke, the pedals, a fuel indicator, a gyroscope thing 
which I did not understand, the twin throttles, and that was it. Above, I 
could see Orthrus’s health, and it was deep in the red. Donut remained in 
the seat behind me. 

She cast her Torch spell and somehow plastered the light to the 
underside of the top wing so it lit up the interior of both of our cockpits, 
solving an issue I hadn’t even realized we had. 

“Ready?” I shouted over the roar of the engines. 

Donut grumbled something I couldn’t hear. I gave Katia a thumbs up, 
and I pushed the throttle, trying to get as much speed as possible. The small 


biplane rumbled forward and then promptly rolled off the edge of the yard, 
dirt showering around us. 

We dropped like a rock, but flying into the wind like that kept us from 
going into a full nosedive. I pulled up on the stick as the ocean reached up 
to us. My stomach lurched like we were on a roller coaster. I held on for 
dear life as we angled downward. We evened out, and then I felt us starting 
to rise in the air. I adjusted the rudder with the rocking foot pedal, and we 
stabilized. I pulled up further. Holy shit, holy shit, it’s working. 

Donut: DON’T FLY LIKE THAT. YOU’RE GOING TO MAKE 
ME VOMIT. 

We banked toward Orthrus as I ascended. I moved in a slow and steady 
curve, overshooting the dog and corkscrewing upward, not wanting to do 
anything that I couldn’t recover from. I caught sight of the Twister quickly 
descending back toward the pazuzu village. 

Even the slightest movement of my hand or feet had a massive impact 
on how the plane moved, and a lot of it was counterintuitive. The whole 
plane felt as if it'd break into a million pieces if I pushed the stick just an 
inch in the wrong direction. 

My Biplane Pilot skill suddenly rose to three. These skill levels didn’t 
come with any new knowledge, but the stick suddenly felt less tight. Still, 
the whole plane vibrated ominously. 

As we ascended, I could finally see the twin crowns of the enormous 
dog. They were like the heads of wolf puppies but with larger ears. The ears 
on the right head were both perked up, and on the left, one was up and one 
was down. A massive tongue lolled out of the left head with the floppy ear. 
Jesus, that damn thing is adorable. 

Its health was at about 10 percent. It’d go unconscious soon. We needed 
to hurry. 

As I carefully lined the plane up for a flyby behind the twin heads, I 
caught another glimmer of distant light beyond the edge of the bubble. The 
landscape beyond the borders of our world was like a sheet of bubble wrap. 
Half of them were popped, but an equal number were fully intact. This was 
the opposite direction from the fire god. The line of bubbles disappeared off 
into the darkness. 

I remembered where we were, which was under the surface of our 
planet, which meant even though I couldn’t see it, there was a roof up there 


somewhere. We needed to be careful and not go too high. Ahead, Orthrus’s 
first mountain-sized head loomed, bobbing back and forth. 

“T need to get closer,” Donut called. 

I gritted my teeth and kept our current trajectory. We were small and 
hopefully unnoticeable. “Okay, hold on!” 

I finally realized that if I put the dot in the middle of the weird, spinning 
gyroscope thing, that meant the plane was completely level, neither pulling 
up or down and straight. There was a little lock on the gyroscope. Out of 
curiosity, I clicked it. Nothing seemed to happen at first, but then I realized 
the yoke was locked in place. It was a rudimentary autopilot, designed to 
keep us stuck on the current trajectory. Huh. It unclicked itself the moment I 
pulled on the stick. 

We approached the back of the dog, perilously close. I could see the 
individual hairs, like a forest beneath us. The world smelled of wet dog. 

“Casting now!” 

The whole creature glowed as its health zoomed up about 50%. Donut 
cast a second time just as we rocketed out of range, bringing it up to 100%, 
though it immediately started to dip. Both of the heads howled, and I had to 
jerk on the stick to avoid a collision, causing the whole plane to shudder 
like a bike rolling over rocks. 

The damn thing was hard to fly. It always felt like it wanted to nose 
dive, and since there was no definitive horizon, it was hard to tell if the 
plane was even level without looking at the gyroscope. 

“Okay, you ready?” I called. 

“Don’t do the bumpy thing, Carl,” Donut said. 

“Let me circle around. Get the scroll ready.” 

We’d received the scroll of Meat Hooks way back on the third floor. A 
city elf had used the same scroll to lure Mongo away from us and into an 
alleyway. We, thankfully, didn’t have to be nearly as close to cast this one. 
The problem was once it was cast, the dog’s attention would suddenly be 
fully on us. I hoped we could move fast enough. 

Before we’d taken off, I’d re-read the scroll’s description. 

Scroll of Meat Hooks. 

Let’s be real. Every pet owner already has this spell, at least when it 
comes to their own pets. Sometimes it’s the sound of a can opener. Or a 
command, such as “chow time, Fido!” Sometimes it’s the wisp of a jar 


of peanut butter being cracked open. No matter what the trigger is, the 
effect is the same. You do something, and your pets come running. 

Meat Hooks works on the same principle. You cast, and pets come to 
you. Except in this case, the resulting stench of black smoke that 
emanates from your hand smells like the rancid remains of the bloated 
corpse of a leprotic muskox after it was repeatedly violated by a randy 
hyena. In other words, it stinks. 

But pets love it. They love it so much, they just come barreling in. 

This spell attracts all carnivorous pet-class mobs, whether they are 
bonded or not, to the source of the stench for a duration of 30 seconds 
plus ten seconds per point of intelligence of the caster. This spell has a 
range of 100 meters plus 20 meters per point of Charisma. 

Donut’s current intelligence sat at 53, but it was really more than ten 
points higher than that with the temporary buffs imparted by the good rest 
bonus and the shower. The system was still “bugged” and didn’t display the 
proper number, but it would apply it when the spell was cast. Sometimes. 
Assuming her effective intelligence was about 64, that meant the spell 
would last just over nine minutes. That should be plenty of time to entice 
the puppy to get out of the damn water and out of the bubble. That’s all we 
needed to do to win the quest. 

Donut’s charisma was a whopping 120. With the bonuses, the spell 
would have a range of almost three full kilometers. That seemed like a lot, 
and it was under normal circumstances, but this monster was just massive. 
A single leap, and it could likely cover that distance in seconds. If we 
weren’t careful, we were toast. 

I arced around, so I was back over the water and behind the puppy. I 
was continuously ascending, wary of a potential invisible ceiling. The icy 
wind whipped at my face. It was goddamned freezing. My new jacket was 
shitty protection against the cold. The plane sputtered a few times, and I 
feared we’d reached the plane’s height ceiling. I leveled out, praying the 
drop bear would hold out just a few more minutes. 

“Read the scroll,” I called. 

The pungent stench immediately started to trail behind the plane, like 
we’d just blown an engine. Behind us, the enormous puppy stopped 
whining. We buzzed straight out of the bubble and into the blackness, the 
smoke trailing us like a train. 


“Carl, Carl it smells really bad! Oh my god, I’m going to vomit all over 
again. Why did I have to cast the spell? I don’t know how this ever attracted 
Mongo.” 

Entering the Lacuna. 

“Ts it following?” I yelled. 

“It’s looking at us, Carl,” Donut said. “Go faster!” 

“I’m going as fast as I can,” I called. 

A mighty thrashing noise filled the world behind us as the puppy pulled 
itself off the top of the necropolis and slammed down into the ocean on its 
back. I looked over my shoulder to see the creature as it howled in 
indignation. Rocks showered off the top of the necropolis. Paws waved in 
the air. Water splashed in every direction. The puppy twisted as it turned to 
face us. The dog yelped as it tipped over the edge of the bubble and 
tumbled out. 

“Its out!” Donut cried. “We did it!” 

Pd been half-expecting the puppy to plummet away and disappear. 
Instead, it fell, landing on a floor that was much closer than I thought. 
When the puppy scrambled to its feet, it was actually taller now than it had 
been before. Both heads howled. A happy tongue continued to loll out of 
the left head. It made an arooo noise and scrambled after us, awkwardly 
bounding. The thing was terrifyingly fast. 

Quest Complete! Where the Red God Glows! 

You removed the puppy from danger! Hurray! 

For everybody who was involved in this quest who actually didn’t 
do anything, shame on you. The next time you’re in mortal danger, I 
hope you remember this moment when nobody comes out of nowhere 
to save your ass. At least you all get the same reward. 

Reward: You get a new quest! 

“Oh fuck me,” I muttered. 

Two bubbles loomed in front of us. We traveled at about %4’s the 
bubbles’ height. Both domes remained intact, meaning the residents hadn’t 
yet completed their tasks. The impenetrable walls were opaque, though one 
of them glowed like a frosted lightbulb. I angled the plane toward the space 
between them. At the widest part of the bubble, there was about a quarter 
mile between the two. Plenty of space to fly, but a struggle for the giant 
dog. 

New Quest. The Dumber of the Flunkies. 


THIS IS A GROUP QUEST. All survivors of the previous group 
quest are now a party to this quest. And why the hell not, all Crawlers 
in Bubble number 18 are also added to the quest. Let’s make it a fiesta. 

Your party has been designated Host of this Group Quest. 

No parties may opt-out of this quest. 

Oh boy, oh boy do we have a situation here. Emberus, god of fire 
and ash seems to believe his son’s missing puppy is inside of bubble 18. 
The dog is not, in fact, within that bubble. He’s just outside of 543, 
having been recently rescued from a painful death. The next step 
should be easy. You just gotta bring the two together. Once that 
happens, both Emberus and Orthrus will immediately return to the 
Celestial Halls and everything will be almost back to normal. 

If something happens to the pup, you will fail this quest. If you fail 
this quest, you will each in turn be smote by Emberus one by one, no 
matter what floor you’re on. You probably don’t know what that 
means. You don’t want to know what that means. 

Hmmm. Maybe that’s a little too easy. Do you know not a single 
crawler in Bubble 18 has yet died? The whole world has been turned to 
lava, and they’re all still alive! That’s just ridiculous. That’s no fiesta. 
Let me think on this for a minute. 

Reward: You will receive a Platinum Quest Box! 

“Carl, why is the quest called that?” Donut yelled. “And what did it 
mean at the end? I don’t like that.” 

“I have no idea. Hold on.” I curved the plane around the edge of the 
bubble. My skill went up another notch. The plane’s shudder eased. A little. 

Ahead, I could finally see it. It wasn’t that far. A glowing presence filled 
the horizon, like a rising sun. It lit up this outside world, more and more the 
closer we got. 

This inbetween world, the lacuna, was more like an egg carton than just 
a sheet of bubble wrap. Each individual bubble was in a spot of its own, 
sunken in deep. The “land” of the lacuna, which I still couldn’t see, was 
only a few hundred feet below the waterline on our quadrant. 

Orthrus scrambled toward us, howling happily. The damn puppy 
seemed to have forgotten he’d almost died a minute before and was now 
joyfully crashing through the world outside the bubbles. The thing leaped 
atop the intact bubbles, which were apparently slippery. It bayed and fell 
sideways and rolled away. Bark, bark, bark, bark. 


The puppy was clearly out of range of the Meat Hooks spell, but it 
didn’t seem to matter. Spell or not, he had noticed us, and he wanted to 
catch us. 

Donut was shouting insults I couldn’t quite catch. The next two bubbles 
in line were both popped. The bubble on the left featured what appeared to 
be a massive cactus. The one on the right was a curved, concrete structure 
shaped like a half-moon. Both landscapes were only half-lit by the red glow 
on the horizon. 

The puppy pounced out of nowhere, landing heavily on the giant cactus 
world. It paused to piddle before resuming its chase. I cringed, hoping 
everybody within the cactus world was okay. 

Carl: Jesus, everybody, if your bubble is popped, get in a saferoom. 
Spread the word! 

“Its going to catch us, Carl,” Donut cried. “If I get eaten by a giant, 
two-headed cocker spaniel so help me I will never forgive you.” 

“Tf it gets too close, turn off the spell!” 

Donut waved her paw frantically. “I can’t turn off the spell!” Her voice 
had gone up an octave. “There’s no button! There’s usually a button! The 
smoke won’t stop! The smell is just unbearable!” 

It was getting warmer by the moment. Katia’s last-minute tinkering 
seemed to have worked. We were moving quickly, almost 400 kilometers 
per hour. We were halfway there. As long as the god’s presence didn’t 
explode the damn airplane, we’d soon get the dog close enough that the god 
would notice. Behind us, the dog had veered away to investigate another 
world. But then its left head howled in our direction, and the chase was on. 

New Quest! Get Orthrus. 

This is a world quest! All living crawlers on the fifth floor will 
receive this message! 

Now it’s a party. 

Orthrus, the two-headed puppy is bounding his way happily 
through the Lacuna, the world that houses the bubbles. This very 
adorable pup is running back to his former master’s father. Don’t 
worry. You can’t miss him. He just drenched the folks in bubble 331, 
and then he knocked down the Sounder Tower in bubble 298. 

What a menace! 

Let’s kill it. 


Reward: Any crawler who kills this cute puppy before he reunites 
with grandpa will receive the following: 

One million gold pieces. 

Five level-up potions. 

A pet monkey named Jimbo. 

Current participants in the “Dumber of the Flunkies” group quest 
are free to kill the puppy if they are sadistic assholes, but they will not 
receive the rewards. You know what, never mind. They get the prize, 
too! 

“Are you kidding me? Are you fucking kidding me?” I yelled. “Come 
on!” 

I immediately moved to send out a group message, but both Katia and 
Elle were already on it, telling everybody they would personally hunt down 
and murder anybody who so much as shot an arrow at the dog as it passed 
by their world. 

I banked left to move between two more intact bubbles. There was a 
line of unpopped worlds here, and I moved to fly past them, like we were 
diving into a ravine. Just as we plunged between the first two bubbles, 
Orthrus pounced, landing atop a bubble just above our heads. He made a 
happy aroo and bounced twice before sticking a paw down to bat at us. 

“Oh shit, oh shit, oh shit,” I said, pushing the stick down and diving. We 
were so damn small compared to the monster, he probably couldn’t even 
see us. He was chasing the massive plume of smoke trailing behind us. The 
giant paw swiped at the smoke, missing us. 

“Carl, this was a terrible idea,” Donut yelled, still shaking her own paw 
like it was on fire, which made the smoke plume even bigger. She had six 
minutes left on the spell. 

Suddenly, both heads of the puppy yelped in surprise and pain at the 
same time. The sound was so loud and so sudden, I almost jumped out of 
my skin. I whipped my head around to look back. The health bar above his 
twin heads plummeted down as Orthrus fell away and out of sight. He 
started yelping pitifully and loudly in the darkness. 

“Goddamnit,” I growled. “Somebody hit it with a spell or something. 
Get ready to heal it.” 

“Carl, we have to get really close for the healing spell.” 

“I know,” I said, pulling up and leaving the protection of the ravine, 
turning away from the burning horizon. The plane whined as I dared to 


make a tight curve. 

“Someone else is out here!” Donut yelled. 

I saw the blue dot on my map, rocketing through the darkness high 
above us, banking back toward the puppy on roughly the same trajectory as 
us. 

You absolute fuck, I thought. 

He’d flown past the dog and hit it with some spell and was now circling 
back to finish him off. 

I didn’t have to see the crawler’s description to know who this was. 

I didn’t have the ability to message him directly. I’d only been able to 
talk to him once, during that first group quest on the third floor. We’d never 
actually met. There was no group chat for this world chat thing. If that ass 
managed to kill the dog, he’d effectively murder everyone in both our 
bubble and bubble 18. 

Carl: If someone has Quan Ch in their chat, tell him to back the 
fuck off. 


OceanofPDE:com 


[ 31] 


TRAN: I HAVE HIM ON MY CHAT! I SAID HE’D KILL US IF HE HURT THE 
dog, and he said, “Sorry, but it’s too good of a prize. Plus, if I get that 
fucking cat in the process it’d be a bonus.” 

“What did I do?” Donut yelled, not bothering to put it in chat. 

Donut had mentioned how much she hated the “cheater” Quan no less 
than twenty times since he’d gotten that celestial box at the end of the third 
floor. I wasn’t surprised that this had somehow gotten back to him. They’d 
probably shown him clips during an interview. 

I sent a quick, frantic question to Mordecai, and he answered with one 
word. 

Mordecai: Yes. 

“Hit him with a goddamn magic missile,” I yelled. I put my hand back, 
holding it out toward Donut. “And give me that potion. Mordecai’s special 
brew.” 

Donut shot a missile, but she missed by a wide margin. At this speed, it 
was difficult to properly aim and fire. The potion appeared in my hand, and 
I pulled it into my inventory. Donut knew by now not to ask questions at 
times like this. 

Thanks to the inventory system, it allowed me to prepare the potion 
without having to actually pull it out. I mentally clicked on the potion in the 
list and dragged it to the other item Mordecai had given me that same day 
he’d created the potion for us. The items combined, and a new item was 
created. 

Orthrus was cowering, ears flattened on both of his heads. He’d shoved 
himself between two bubbles, one popped and another intact, The popped 


world was heavily forested. If there’d been any sort of raised air quadrant, it 
was gone now. The dog whimpered as he backed away from the 
approaching Quan. His health was at 20%. 

We lined up behind Quan, who’d lowered and was moving in to strike 
again. I’d seen his main attack a few times on the recap episode, and it had 
a relatively short range. It was some sort of blue lightning energy strike that 
came from his left hand. He’d used it to crash trains on the previous floor. 

He’d be in range to strike the dog again in about twenty seconds. 

“Try it again,” I growled. 

A magic missile sizzled by my ear as Donut shot directly at the flying 
man. The bolt hit him square in the back. 

He staggered in the air, but nothing else happened. He recovered almost 
immediately. A health bar didn’t even appear. A translucent shield 
shimmered for just a moment. He looked over his shoulder at us. He gave a 
little grin. 

“He’s cheating, Carl,” Donut yelled. “He has a shield!” 

“It’s that goddamned robe,” I said. The celestial-tier item gave him his 
flying ability, the lightning attack, and presumably the shield. We’d seen 
hints of the shield before. Lucia Mar had something similar. Mordecai said 
the robe also likely added multiple other benefits we didn’t know about, 
like enormous stat boosts and additional special abilities or spells. 

The protection was probably a level-15 Shield spell, but we didn’t know 
for sure. Shield was one of the spells Mordecai and I had discussed 
extensively. We were going to use all of our money to buy a tome of it the 
next floor so we could give it to Donut. 

If this was a level-15 shield, it’d last for as long as his intelligence stat 
times three seconds, however long that was. It protected against most 
attacks, including explosions and magic. However, it wasn’t a spell of 
invulnerability. Psionic, aural, and cloud-based attacks still worked. Blunt 
force trauma still staggered the caster, and the shield itself had hit points. 
Do enough damage and *poof* the shield was gone. The total health points 
of the shield went up based on level. At 15, it was something crazy, like ten 
times the caster’s constitution. 

We’d seen Quan Ch run instead of fight multiple times, so the shield 
either had a long cooldown or the guy was just a wuss. He was at level 48, 
one higher than myself. He had an incalculable number of neighborhood 
and borough boss kill stars over his head. He didn’t have any skulls, despite 


all the damage he’d done on the previous floor. But he fought dirty. He was 
like a vulture. He preyed on the weak and the almost dead, stealing kills 
from others. I was willing to bet he would turn tail the moment he sensed he 
was in any real danger. 

We were moving faster than him and would overtake him in seconds, 
but he could blow us out of the sky with the flick of a wrist. I’d watched 
him crush the front of an onrushing train with little effort. 

“Donut,” I yelled as we approached. “Set your sunglasses so you can 
see his heat signature! And then empty the gun into him as we pass! Magic 
missiles, too!” I leveled the plane and clicked the gyroscope, locking our 
trajectory in place. If he maintained his position, we’d pass under him by 
about thirty feet. 

Ahead, the massive, mountain-sized Orthrus loomed. 

“Carl, he’s going to blow us up!” 

“Tf this doesn’t work, jump!” 

I pulled myself up out of the seat and moved to the right, grasping onto 
the metal pole that connected the top wing to the fuselage. I stepped out 
onto the lower wing, anchoring myself to the plane as the wind whipped at 
me and threatened to throw me out into the darkness. The small, starboard 
propellor whined, right in front of me. I needed to be careful. 

“Carl, Carl! What are you doing!” 

“Switch your glasses now,” I yelled as I extended my xistera and loaded 
the hobgoblin disco ball. Quan turned his head to gauge our position, and I 
saw his eyes go wide at the sight of me on the wing. He banked away and 
flipped in midair, left hand glowing as I tossed the ball, avoiding the 
propellor by inches. 

His shield was still intact, but the disco ball exploded over his chest 
anyway, knocking him back. The sticky, sand-like residue clung to the 
outside of the shield like mud. A rainbow of smoke started to billow from 
the impact. He waved frantically at it as the smoke rose. He cast a bolt, but 
it flew wide. 

We zipped past Quan, who was still positioned above us. The gun 
rattled to life. Donut shrieked with joy as she fired the gun at her prey. A 
double-shot, full powered magic missile slammed into the cloud. 

“I hit him! I hit him!” 

I loaded a fused hob-lobber, designated it with my new remote 
detonator skill and tossed it at the growing plume of pulsing, rainbow 


smoke. Even with my new ability to toss these things twice as far, I’d 
waited a hair too long to throw it. Still, I set it off right when the ball started 
to dip. The explosion crackled through the air, twenty feet short of the ever- 
growing plume. 

I knew from experience that was plenty close to do its job. 

The sizzling and crackling circle of pulsing rainbow smoke plummeted 
out of the sky. I couldn’t see Quan himself. The disco-ball remnants were 
sticky, and they adhered to his chest and followed him as he fell like a 
comet. He disappeared below. 

“Did we kill him? Did we?” Donut yelled. 

“No,” I shouted, pulling myself back into the cockpit. I resumed control 
and banked to the right. We flew over the dog, barely 50 feet over the top of 
the head. If he reared up now, we’d get splattered. “But he’s gonna be 
mighty sore and deaf. Hopefully that ran him off. Cast your heal spell.” 

Below, Orthrus whimpered. Donut healed him, and I pulled up, angling 
between two bubbles. We brought the health back up to 70%, which had the 
unfortunate and immediate side effect of renewing the dog’s interest in 
chasing us. The Meat Hooks spell still spewed from Donut’s paw. 

The thing howled as he jumped to its feet. I turned the plane sharply, 
growing more confident in my ability to steer, angling back in the correct 
direction. 

“Carl, more crawlers!” Donut shouted just as I saw the new threat. 

A metal-skinned dirigible shaped like a fish emerged in front and below 
us. The slow-moving airship had come out of nowhere. I watched as twin 
harpoons shot from the flying machine, right at the dog. 

“Goddamnit,” I cried. 

They were flying too low and too slow. The harpoons fell short of their 
target, and I watched as three crawlers jumped away as the dog smashed 
into them, not even noticing their presence. The fish-shaped balloon 
exploded and disappeared against the fur. I suspected the crawlers who’d 
jumped out hadn’t fared much better. 

“Serves you right!” Donut yelled as we zoomed forward. Ahead, I could 
now see the god. I could feel him, too, heat rising like we were slowly 
approaching a campfire. 

Emberus. The humanoid god looked asymmetrical from behind. A 
massive, curved horn erupted from the left side of his head. His right side 
appeared caved-in, almost like that kid with compression sickness. The 


horn smoked like an incense stick. The god’s skin was made of curls of 
orange and red fire, licking up and down, all coming together to vaguely 
form a muscular human-shaped body. From the descriptions of the others, 
his skin was normally like a gooey, blue-hued rock, and he’d only set 
himself fully alight the moment he started shrieking at the dog soldier 
woman. The god was massive, but not as big as I thought he’d be. If he was 
sized as a regular human, Orthrus would be like a large horse to him. The 
god was leaned against a bubble, pounding on it with a giant fist, shouting 
over and over. The bubble wall glowed red. 

Sun and Ash God Emberus. Level 250. 

Warning: This is a deity. He is invulnerable on this floor. 

This is a locked god. There will be no sponsors of this deity this 
season. 

This god has been summoned to this location. Summoning rules 
apply. 

The youngest brother of Taranis, and half of the sun duology, 
Emberus strongly feels he is the best-suited candidate to ascend to the 
Celestial Throne. Known to be stoic and indifferent to the suffering of 
all but those he feels worthy, Emberus can be a just god if the fancy 
strikes him. The problem is the fancy hasn’t struck in a very long time. 
He’s usually an unmitigated asshole who’ll arbitrarily burn everyone 
you know and love just for looking at him funny. He’s considered one 
of the most unhinged of all the pantheon. 

His twin brother is Hellik, another sun god who is quite obsessed 
with killing both Emberus and big brother Taranis. It’s a very 
dysfunctional relationship. I guess most families are like this. You 
probably don’t want to get involved. 

Emberus’s very presence can be deadly to crawlers, and that’s just 
when he’s in his regular form. When he gets emotional, things really 
start to heat up. 

Word on the street is that since his favorite son was murdered by an 
unknown assailant, Emberus has been acting even kookier than usual. 
The dude plucked his own eyes out in his grief. It was really gross. 

We were still miles away, but the heat was rising by the moment. We 
wouldn’t be able to get much closer. We needed the damn god to just turn 
around. He’s blind. That’s not going to make a difference. 

He’d somehow sensed the dog soldier woman. But how? 


“More, on the ground!” Donut yelled, pointing down. 

This was a whole group of crawlers, maybe 15 of them. They were a 
line of blue dots on the floor between the bubbles, moving toward the dog. I 
couldn’t actually see them down there in the darkness. But right after Donut 
pointed them out, a fireball arced from the group and headed toward 
Orthrus. The spell splashed against the dog, ineffective. 

“Holy shit,” I said. “Those idiots are going to get themselves killed.” 

“They’re going to kill us if they get the stupid puppy,” Donut replied. 

A new spell shot from the group. This was a magic missile, but Orthrus 
bounded up atop a pair of bubbles and moved out of range, completely 
oblivious to the danger. He looked in our direction and started barking 
frantically and jumping. He slipped off and fell forward, rolling over a 
popped quadrant before jumping back to his feet. 

“Do you see anybody else?” I yelled. The plane whined ominously. It 
was getting harder to breathe the closer we got to Emberus. The wind felt 
like a hairdryer to the face. 

Orthrus yelped once again, pained voice higher-pitched than before. 
Both heads squeaked and cried and then stopped abruptly. The dog crashed 
heavily to the ground. Oh no. No, no, no. 

I turned the plane around. The dog wasn’t dead. His health was down to 
2% and he was Unconscious with a one-minute timer over his head. The 
front half of the puppy was draped over a popped bubble with water 
cascading off it. It was a rocky, barren world. 

Quan. Goddamn shit stain mother fucker. He’d recovered and returned. 
He’d hit the dog from behind. In the distance, I could see the tiny, glowing 
speck of him floating there in the darkness. He was moving in to finish the 
puppy off. 

The goddamned sun god was too busy shouting to even hear all of this 
happening a few miles behind him. I aimed right at the dog, putting the 
plane into a shallow dive. I punched the throttle. 

“Grab the stick,” I yelled as I clicked the gyroscope and jumped onto 
the wing. The plane started to shudder. 

“Grab the stick?” Donut shrieked. “What do you mean, grab the stick! 
Thumbs, Carl! Thumbs!” 

“Pull up as soon as I throw!” 

I loaded the potion ball into my xistera. It was filled with Mordecai’s 
Special Brew, which would immediately heal the puppy and make him 


near-invulnerable for thirty seconds. Mordecai had confirmed it’d work on 
the dog. I just had to hit the damn thing before Quan got close enough to 
cast his electrical attack. 

Donut continued to scream as we dove. I tuned her out, and I put all of 
my strength into the throw. Far on the other side of the puppy, Quan’s left 
hand crackled to life. I hurled the ball, grunting with the effort. It shot 
through the air like a bullet. It disappeared from sight, lost as we rapidly 
dove toward the colossal left head. 

The ball hit the puppy at the same moment Quan attacked. 

“Yes!” I cried as the dog glowed. His health rocketed to the top. It did 
not wake him up. “That’s right you worthless... gah!” 

The plane pulled sharply upward as I clutched onto the wing brace. We 
whipped around like in a haywire carnival ride. I immediately activated 
sticky feet, which momentarily saved me from flying right off the wing. 
Donut was in the main cockpit, screaming with her paws wrapped around 
the stick. She was all the way on her back against the small seat, and she 
had a death grip on the yoke. The plane did a complete loop as I also 
screamed, immediately regretting every life choice I’d ever made that led us 
to this moment. We looped again, this time rolling starboard. The plane 
groaned. Something flew off the back rudder. 

“Let go of the stick!” I cried as we tumbled through the air. I forcibly 
pulled myself headfirst into the cockpit. I desperately held onto the seat as 
my back legs disconnected from the wing and dangled in the air. Donut did 
not let go. 

I grabbed the cat and pulled myself all the way in, scrambling to sit 
upright and planting my feet on the rudder pedals. The plane rolled through 
the air, corkscrewing, centrifugal forces tossing us every direction at once. I 
had no idea how to correct a roll. Something had fallen off the back of the 
plane. Donut’s paw still trailed stinking black smoke, and it was now 
trailing it directly into my face, blinding me. 

I centered out the pedals on the floor. They were sticky and pulled to the 
right. Something broke when I forced the pedals into place. 

I closed my eyes, instead focusing on the controls in my interface. I 
gently worked the stick—which still had a screaming Donut attached to it— 
attempting to straighten the plane out. 

We continued to spin, but less violently. I opened my eyes, and I took in 
the scene. I’d only managed to partially stabilize the plane. I’d stopped the 


barrel-roll spinning, but now we were spiraling downward, like we were 
going down a drain. I tried pulling up, but the plane barely reacted. 

We were going to crash into the side of the puppy or land into the rock 
quadrant in about twenty seconds. Orthrus was still unconscious, but his 
health was topped off. Quan was moving in toward us, hands glowing. I 
could tell he was pissed off. I wondered if he still had his shield spell active. 
I suspected not. Below, I caught sight of something else. Someone— 
probably that same group as before—were attempting to kill the dog from 
the floor of the Lacuna with a parade of spells. They didn’t seem to realize 
Orthrus was invulnerable for another 15 seconds. 

Quan was going to kill us before we crashed. And then either him or 
those idiots on the ground were going kill the goddamned dog before that 
idiot Emberus noticed the giant battle right behind him. 

I only had one choice. I went with the nuclear option. 

The moment Emberus’s description popped up on my display, I received 
the option to “worship” him. The notes in the cookbook all warned against 
this. I quickly moved to the god tab. I only had the option to worship two 
different gods. Grull and Emberus. I clicked Emberus. 

An Are You Sure? popped up. I clicked Yes. A wall of text appeared. I 
waved it away. 

I clicked the gyroscope in place. 

“Carl, what’s happening? Why are you glowing?” Donut asked. 

“Get on my back and hold on. Do not let go. Use your claws if you have 
to. Take the half-splat potion.” 

I stood up in the cockpit as Donut clung to my back shoulders, placing 
herself between my cloak and my jacket. Her claws clung painfully to me, 
even through the fabric of both the jacket and the trollskin shirt. I reached 
up and grabbed the back of the top wing. 

“Don’t let go!” I yelled. She trembled against my back. 

There was a small, gnome-sized handhold here. I used it to bodily pull 
myself to the top of the upper wing. I firmly planted my feet, and I stood 
tall atop of the death-spiraling biplane. Quan angled in, left hand glowing 
blue, right glowing red—which was new. I pulled the celestial grenade from 
my inventory, I activated it, and I threw it with all of my strength directly at 
him. 

He immediately shot the red bolt at the grenade in an attempt to 
intercept it. The ball froze in the air about fifteen feet in front of him. I had 


no idea what the spell was or how it was supposed to work, but it had 
stopped the attack in midair. 
And, ultimately, it made no difference whatsoever. 


The celestial grenade had been a sponsor prize to Chris and Maggie from 
the Skull Empire, and it was supposed to have been used to summon a pain 
god to kill me. Instead, I used Prince Maestro’s gift to save myself. Myself 
and everybody in two different bubbles. 

The ball blinked once, and it seemed to wink out of existence. Quan 
moved to fire his main attack. I leaped from the top of the spiraling plane, 
plummeting out of range. 

It didn’t matter. Quan never got a chance to fire his spell. 

The grenade was designed to summon a god. It would be a random god. 
That is, unless the person who threw the grenade worshiped a deity. 

Emberus appeared, having been involuntarily summoned to this location 
from just a few miles over. As I plummeted out of the sky and toward the 
ground below, I twisted in the air to see the god manifest above us. I 
cringed, preparing for the heat. It never came. 

He took on a strange form, different than before. He was nothing more 
than a massive, floating head and shoulders. The god was huge and angry, 
his skin a sort of shimmering, smoldering rocky gray dotted with multicolor 
hotspots, almost like acne. A secondary mouth screamed on his right cheek, 
glowing red. Above this second mouth, his skin was sunken in and 
flattened, like an ancient injury that had healed poorly. His empty eye 
sockets trailed smoke and rained blood. 

The spiraling drop bear hit him right in the nose and exploded. 

You have been imbued with Divine Intervention. You are 
invulnerable for sixty seconds. 

I was invulnerable. Donut wasn’t. 

Quan had been in there somewhere, and he wasn’t there now. I didn’t 
know if he’d been killed or not, but if he was still alive, he’d been knocked 
from the sky. 

The head was huge, city-sized, but still smaller than the god had been 
just moments before when he’d been pounding on the side of bubble 18. 


It looked as if we were going to miss hitting Orthrus. Instead, we’d land 
in what looked like a flat valley that was part of the land quadrant of this 
world. There was a level stairwell just sitting there not too far away, out in 
the open. I could see the light shining off of it, reaching desperately into the 
sky like a spotlight. 

“Orthrus,” the god said, his relief-filled voice flowing into the world, 
filling the valley with sound. The blood pouring from the god’s eyes turned 
to rain. “Orthrus. There you are. I’ve been looking for you. I was so very 
worried.” 

The god was supposed to hang around for sixty seconds. He didn’t. 
Even before we hit the ground, Orthrus just blinked away. I twisted, and the 
god was also gone, leaving a shimmering wake in the sky. The world 
around us plunged into darkness, lit only by the spotlight from the stairwell 
location. 

I flipped onto my stomach. “Hold on,” I cried. 

We slammed into the ground. Donut, on my back, cried out in pain as 
she bounced up off me. The wind knocked out of me, but my bones didn’t 
break. I took no damage. I jumped to my feet, breathing. 

Entering the land quadrant of the Soulless Prophet. 

Donut was unconscious. Her health had been knocked all the way down 
to 5%, and I realized her skin was smoldering, her hair singed. Smoke had 
finally stopped pouring from her paw. I immediately cast a heal scroll, and 
her health returned. I rubbed her fur, and my hands came away black. The 
god, even in the giant floating head form had been blazing hot. The Divine 
Intervention buff that came with the celestial grenade had protected me, and 
I hadn’t even realized it. 

The only light came from the stairwell, a quarter of a mile away. It 
reminded me of when it all started, of that stairwell shining into the 
freezing, night air. 

Something slammed into me. I went flying back. 

Quan. He’d sneaked up and hit me with his lightning attack. My 
invulnerability was still active for another few seconds. You goddamn idiot. 
I leaped to my feet, turned toward him, and I charged. 

The half-elf’s eyes went huge. I punched him straight in the face with 
my bare fist, and he flew back. A health bar appeared. 

“You murderous fuck,” I yelled as he scrambled to his feet. “I’m going 
to rip you to pieces.” 


A knife appeared in Quan’s hand, and he stabbed at me. The knife 
exploded in his hand just as my invulnerability ran out. The buff was 
invisible, I realized. I had no indicator over my head saying I was 
invulnerable. There was no other explanation as to why the idiot would’ve 
attacked me now. 

I was now able to be hurt, but he didn’t know that. I gasped, and I tried 
to hide it. Even though the god was gone, the air felt as if it was on fire. The 
ground, I realized, was burning hot to the touch. It didn’t hurt my feet, but I 
could sense it. The stench of burning flesh filled this world. 

I growled, anger building and building. I thought of what he’d done. 
What he’d purposely done. 

“Don’t you realize,” I said. I was unable to make a coherent sentence 
come out. “Don’t you realize?” 

Don’t you realize what you’ve done, I was trying to say. You only care 
about yourself. You’re stronger than all of us, but you don’t care. Think of 
all the good you could do. Think of how much better we’d all be if you 
werent such a selfish prick. But that’s not what came out. “Don’t you 
realize,” I said again, the words a jumbled growl. “You’re a bully. You’re a 
bully and nobody likes you. That’s why...” I caught myself. 

The man turned and tried to fly away. I grasped him by the magical 
robe, and I slammed him to the ground. He hit face-first into a rock, and 
teeth went flying. I activated Talon Strike on my foot and slammed down. 
But the man was quick, and he rolled away. 

Stop, a distant voice cried in my head. Stop. He’s not the enemy. 

Fuck you, I said to that voice. He is the enemy. He’s the worst kind. 

Quan was a small guy, but he was fast. Blood poured from his mouth. 
He glowed as he healed himself. 

I lunged, and he continued to roll on the ground. He suddenly leaped to 
his feet, backflipping. His hand glowed blue. I jumped forward, grabbed his 
glowing left arm, and I yanked it, trying to interrupt the spell and pull him 
off balance. 

At the same moment, he tried once again to take flight and escape, only 
this time he used some sort of special ability that caused him to launch 
away like a rocket, superman-like. The crawler screamed in agony as I fell 
back onto my ass. He took flight, disappearing into the darkness. Stunned, I 
watched the trajectory of the blue dot on the map. He landed a quarter mile 
away, and he stumbled into the stairwell station, disappearing. 


“Coward,” I shouted, my rage bubbling over. “This isn’t over!” 

Carl: Tran, send a message to Quan for me. Tell him that was just a 
deposit. 

I stared down at the severed arm in my hand. It was his whole damn 
arm, all the way to the shoulder. It sagged, dangling limply in my grip. I just 
stared at it, breathing heavily. 

Pd ripped his goddamned arm off. He had three rings on his fingers. 

I turned, and Donut had awakened. Her luminous eyes blinked at me. I 
couldn’t read the expression on her face. 

I sat on the hot ground, which was rapidly cooling. Fog filled the world. 

Holy shit, I thought. Holy shit. That just happened. Holy shit, we’re still 
alive. 

Before I could bring myself to say anything to Donut, the 
announcement came. 

Quest Failed! Get Orthrus. 

Not a single one of you was able to kill a level 10 puppy. A puppy. 
It’s no wonder you guys keep dying. 

Jimbo the monkey is never going to get adopted now! 

As a penalty for failing the quest, all safe rooms will only serve 
monkey soup and saltine crackers for the remainder of this floor. 

I groaned, rolling onto my back. I felt as if Pd been run over. 

Quest Complete! The Dumber of the Flunkies! 

You saved a sweet, innocent puppy! He’s now frolicking on the 
twelfth floor where he will soon resume his training. Nun-defiling is 
back on the menu! 

Reward: You’ve received a platinum quest box! 

I briefly wondered who lived here in this bubble. I didn’t see anybody, 
mobs or crawlers. They’d likely all fled when Emberus started his rampage. 
I could go to sleep here. That, of course, would be a terrible idea. 

Donut just sat next to me. She still hadn’t said a word since we’d 
jumped from the plane. 

I sent a message to Imani. 

Carl: Might as well get started. 

Imani: Are you sure? Shouldn’t we wait until you’re back? 

Carl: Don’t have time. If a bunch of gods start popping up, we’ll 
deal with it when it happens. 


I still had a whole page of notifications to read. I was putting it off. I 
now had two new tattoos, one on the back of each of my hands. Each was 
of a sun. Both tattoos glowed vaguely orange. 

“You know what, Carl? I’ve decided something,” Donut said, finally 
speaking. She released Mongo, who squawked and started investigating this 
strange, new world. 

“Yeah, Donut?” 

“I think they’re right about you. I think you’re crazy. Like, not a little 
weird crazy. Not guy who eats cereal without milk crazy. But crazy, crazy. 
Straitjacket crazy.” 

I took the cat into my lap, and then I pulled her to my chest. She purred 
heavily into my ear. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 32 ] 


<Note by Crawler Justice Light, 8" Edition> 

I made a mistake today. I killed an NPC I shouldn't have. We are 
a strong people, the skyfowl of the white cliffs. We do not take insults 
without retribution. He was a proprietor of a store selling trap 
supplies in a large settlement here on the sixth floor. I needed what 
he had, but he insulted me, so I killed him. It let me take the item 
that was on the shelf. But he had so much more. He always said the 
items were in the back, but there was nothing there. I think 
everything was in his inventory, but it appears shopkeepers don’t 
drop their full inventory if you kill them. Now the town guards are 
after me, and the shop, which was a good source of supplies for me 
and many others, is just gone, and I fear the whole operation is 
going to fail thanks to my actions. It was the only trap shop on the 
whole floor. 

This is something we should note and remain aware of. Do not 
make the same mistake as me. Killing of these innocents should be 
kept to a minimum, unless absolutely necessary. 


Time to Level Collapse: 3 days, 7 hours. 


TsSERENDOLGOR: HE’s GONE. THE WORLD IS STILL TOO HOT. 
Everything melted. One of us can fly, and she’s going out there to put 
the last crystal in place, which’ll pop the bubble. We’re gonna have to 
go down the stairs right after. Thanks for the platinum box, too. I got 
an upgrade for my flamethrower. A guy in my group got a tome of Heal 
Party. Everyone is getting good stuff. 

Carl: Okay, good. Try to do it as soon as you can. You don’t want to 
be sitting around in a popped bubble for this next part. 

“Carl, what in god’s name is on the back of your hands?” Donut asked. 
“What did you do?” 

I examined the twin tattoos. They were round, tribal-style tats of the 
sun. The tattoos were almost identical, but not exactly. The rays coming off 
the sun on my right hand were curled, and on my left, they were little 
triangles. The difference was subtle. Each tattoo was black, but with an 
orange glow. I could feel them there, warm and vaguely uncomfortable. 

“Tm guessing they’re a sign of my new religion,” I said as we trudged 
toward the stairwell. We wanted to examine it to make sure Quan really 
went down there. Plus there had to be a saferoom around here somewhere. 
Even if everything got destroyed, they would persist. 

The ground was too hot for Donut, and she rode on my shoulder. We’d 
had to put Mongo away, too. The area was barren. “Religion? Whatever do 
you mean? You can’t join a religion, Carl. You wake up at noon on 
Sundays. I don’t even know what the ten commandments are, but I’m 
certain I’ve watched you break almost all of them multiple times.” 

I told her what I did and why I did it. Before I could finish, we were 
interrupted. 

Mordecai: Which one of you two idiots is responsible for this? 

Carl: What? 

Mordecai: A shrine just appeared in the saferoom. It’s a sun disk 
with a cup and a skull. It doesn’t say what god this is for, but I’m 
guessing it’s Emberus. 

Donut: CARL DID IT. DON’T GET MAD AT ME. 

Donut sighed. “Really, Carl. We could’ve avoided all this just by going 
down the stairs earlier.” She examined the twin suns again and clucked with 
disdain. “With your new jacket and bandana and tattoos, you look like 
someone whose picture gets put on the news because he did something 


involving indecent exposure and a Wal-Mart. What does this new religion 
actually mean for you?” 

“T don’t know,” I said, grinning sheepishly. “I’m kind of scared to click 
on the notification.” 

“Don’t be a baby, Carl. Guys covered in disgusting tattoos shouldn’t be 
babies. Look, there’s a saferoom that way. You can find out what you did 
while we walk. Let’s get inside before Imani and Katia start blowing 
everything up.” 

I sighed, and I pulled up the notification as I turned toward the 
saferoom. I couldn’t see the room in the darkness, but it was only about a 
quarter mile beyond the stairwell. 

Congratulations, Crawler. You have devoted your life and fate to 
one of service. You are now an adherent of Emberus, God of Sun and 
Ash! 

Your ranking in the church: Acolyte. 

Warning: You do not have a cleric or paladin class. As such, you may 
not ascend past Devotee. See the Deity tab for more information. 

Emberus, the personification of a star’s destructive power, 
welcomes you into his warm embrace. He welcomes all who accept his 
core philosophy. Emberus believes power, once held, must never sit 
idle. It is to be used and never squandered. 

Because of your new-found faith, you must adhere to the following 
rules, lest you provoke the god’s wrath. 


e You mustn’t cause harm to fellow worshippers of Emberus. 

e You must stop and offer a single drop of blood at an Emberus 
temple at least once a day. If no temples are found in a 30-hour 
period, you must make the offering at the sun shrine that has 
now appeared in your personal space. 

e Five percent of all looted gold must also be tossed into the 
shrine. 

e You may not own or wield any magical gear that is blessed by 
the god Hellik. 

e You must successfully complete all issued church quests. 


A drop of blood and some coins once a day didn’t seem so bad. 


I didn’t know what a “Church quest” was. I couldn’t remember seeing 
anything like that in the cookbook, but that was the most worrisome of all 
the rules. Donut was going to be pissed by the 5% gold payment, but we 
could work around it by making her loot the majority of our kills. I didn’t 
have anything in my inventory that had anything to do with Hellik. I moved 
on to the benefits. 

All adherents in good standing with the God Emberus receive the 
following holy benefits: 


e Access to all Temples of Emberus. 

e All temples of Emberus now appear on your map. 

e All temples of Hellik now appear on your map. 

¢ All worshippers of Emberus will be indicated with a symbol. 

e All worshippers of Hellik will be indicated with a symbol. 

e All Hellik-worshipping NPCs, crawlers, and mobs killed by 
you will now offer 100% more experience. 

e Immunity to Burn effect. 

e All physical attacks by you have a 10% chance to inflict Burn. 

e Free access* to Club Vanquisher, regardless of previous and 
current affiliations. 

e Every five consecutive days of worship, you will receive a boon 
from the god. 

e Additional benefits and responsibilities will become available 
as your worship circle increases. 


That was actually pretty good, especially the access to Club Vanquisher. 
There was an asterisk after “Free Access” without any sort of corresponding 
information, which was worrying. But I guessed I’d figure that out when I 
tried to get inside. Last I heard, however, the club was still closed thanks to 
Prepotente going apeshit. 

The burn effect was good. It was similar to poison, where it continued 
to damage the target over time. I wasn’t sure what the benefits of temples 
were. There was very little information about this stuff in the cookbook, 
likely because this was all cleric territory, a class that’d never receive the 
book in the first place. 

The only temples I could recall seeing were entrances to Club 
Vanquisher, but I hadn’t noticed if they were for different deities. I knew all 


clerics and paladins had to pick a god upon class selection, and they’d all 
been doing this stuff since the third floor, so temples had to be all over the 
place. I had one additional notification waiting for me. 

Message from Emberus. 

I swallowed. It was set up just like a regular chat notification, but it 
glowed with a golden light. I clicked on it. 

Emberus: My child, you have reunited me with my son’s lost pet. I 
am grateful. I have granted you a boon. But our work is not done. I 
have two tasks for you. 

You have a received a boon from your god! 

Your constitution has been raised by 25% for 30 hours! 

The message seemed so normal. It was odd that the message came to 
me this way. The system described him as unhinged, but nothing about any 
of the benefits or requirements seemed too crazy. If all the boons were this 
good, then it was totally worth it. The moment I clicked away from the 
message, I received two new notifications. 

Unlike regular quests, these came in the god’s gravelly voice. 

New Quest. Find Out Who Killed My Son. 

Geyrun was murdered. Find out who did it and why. My only clue 
is that the most obvious suspect, my brother Hellik, was in council with 
the rest of us when it happened. Visit the high cleric at the Emberus 
Shrine at Club Vanquisher for additional details. 

Time Limit: There is no time limit for this quest. However, you will 
receive a smite if you attempt to exit the 18" floor of the world 
dungeon before this task is complete. 

Reward: That depends on who did it. 

Based on all the previous hints at this, I figured this was coming. At 
least there was no hurry. I clicked over to the next notification. Emberus’s 
voice took on a decidedly angry tone for this one. 

New Quest. Kill Hellik. 

My twin brother Hellik, god of Sun and Life seeks to kill both me 
and my older brother, Taranis God of Thunder and regent to the 
Celestial Throne. He is a fool. He is a danger. He has no right to exist. 
As an adherent, it is your task to kill him. You will receive a bonus if his 
death is painful. 

Time Limit: Hellik must die before you reach the 12 floor. If he still 
lives, you will receive a smite. 


Reward: Slaying Hellik will result in a Celestial God Box. 

Warning: Killing a god may have some unintended consequences 
for all crawlers. 

I took a deep breath. If Hellik looked anything like Emberus did, killing 
him wasn’t going to happen any time soon. Gods were invulnerable and 
level 250. 

Again, this was something to worry about later. The idea of a celestial 
box was intoxicating, but the notion of harming one of those things was 
absurd. Even with Katia’s special bolt that removed their invulnerability for 
a few seconds, it just seemed impossible. 

We paused at the stairwell as I explained to Donut and Mordecai all of 
the god’s benefits and tasks. As expected, Donut lost her mind at the 5% 
tithe. 

“Well you’re just going to have to immediately remove yourself from 
this religion. It’s as simple as that, Carl. I don’t know what you were 
thinking. We’ll just have to live with whatever this smite business is. Surely 
it can’t be worse than five percent. It’s an outrage!” 

“Five percent is a lot, but it’s nothing compared to some religions. You 
know Bea’s parents paid twenty percent of their income to their church? 
They used to get mad at her when she didn’t donate, too.” 

“Twenty percent? I find that hard to believe, Carl.” 

“Tt’s true. And her dad was a lawyer. They made a ton of money.” 

“Wow. It’s no wonder they were always so grumpy.” 

Mordecai also called me an idiot, but he was distracted. He said we 
needed us to get back to the saferoom as soon as possible. Thanks to 
Samantha’s help, he’d figured out the yam thing. He had a potion for me. 

The stairwell was placed atop a perfectly-square, large sheet of metal 
with a small lip around it, like a giant cookie sheet that was about 10x10 
feet. The stairwell was just a magical hole cut in the center. I wondered 
what had happened here in this bubble. 

Fresh blood splattered on the metal. That was from Quan’s passage. I 
smiled, looking down at the bare arm still in my hand. Had I just been 
walking with this thing in my hand? Huh. I hadn’t managed to rip or tear 
the robe, unfortunately, but I was pretty sure I’d stopped him from using his 
lightning attack for good. Some crawlers had a limb regeneration benefit, 
but the spell was pretty rare. And apparently the limb didn’t just regrow 
right away. Hopefully he learned his lesson. 


“He’s going to try to hurt us now,” Donut said, looking down at the arm. 
“We already have Maggie and Maestro and Lucia after us. You should have 
killed him.” 

“I would have, but he got away,” I said. 

“Are you really going to keep the arm? Because that’s really gross, 
Carl.” 

“Of course I’m going to keep it.” The saferoom now appeared on my 
map, but I still couldn’t see anything. Donut said it was a hatch into the 
ground. 

He had three rings on the fingers. I pulled the first one off. It was a 
simple plus two ring of strength. These things had been pretty common on 
the first two floors. I put it on, making it my fifth ring. I could wear a total 
of ten rings, but I’d try to avoid putting one on my thumbs if I could. 

The second ring was more interesting. 

Rockard’s Ring of Sniping. 

This amber-stoned ring is named after Rockard, one of the 
dungeon’s most infamous crawlers. This orcish warrior was known for 
his uncanny ability to swoop in at the last moment and steal glory from 
other crawlers, gaining the best loot and experience. Everybody hated 
him. It was great! 

Fun fact. This guy led his season’s top 10 list until he was knifed in 
his sleep by his own mother. Luckily for you, crawlers can’t be killed 
by other crawlers in saferooms anymore. A shame, really. 

Wearing this ring imbues the following benefits: 

The Ripe benefit. 

The Loaded benefit. 

I looked up both of the benefits. 

Ripe. 

All creatures with less than 50% health are indicated on your map. 
This does not increase your map’s view, but used in conjunction with 
other skills such as Pathfinder, it makes being a glory-stealing asshole 
really easy. 

No wonder Quan had received such a reputation. The description was 
correct. Something like this made experience sniping simple. I remembered 
what had happened at the end of the last floor when he’d attempted to kill 
the province boss that Miriam Dom and Prepotente had been trying to kill. 
He’d screwed it up and fled. 


The next benefit probably hadn’t been too useful thus far. That 
would’ve changed for him starting the next floor. I grinned. 

Loaded. 

All non-hidden creatures wearing magical gear are indicated on 
your map. Particularly useful when you only want to hang out with the 
real fashionistas and not just the posers wearing fake shit. Also good if 
you want to sneak up behind someone, bonk them on their head, and 
steal all their stuff. 

I also added this ring to my finger. 

The last ring wasn’t enchanted. I blinked at that until I realized this was 
a ring from before. It was a gold band stuck on his index finger. It didn’t 
come off easily, like it was too small. I twisted and pulled. The finger 
crunched. “Whoops,” I muttered. 

The description just said Sappy gold ring. Worthless. Toss it. I held it 
up to the light orb floating over us, and I could see a few faded characters 
carved on the inside of the band. “For Daddy.” I shoved the ring back on the 
finger, but it wouldn’t go all the way. I pushed it to the first knuckle and 
then pulled the whole thing into my inventory. 

I touched the metal sheet containing the stairwell. I was expecting it to 
be burning hot, but it was cool to the touch. I pushed it like a sled all the 
remaining way to the saferoom. It moved easily. 

I figured it’d be best to have an escape directly outside the safe room. I 
didn’t want to stay here in this weird world since we had so much to do, but 
we were stuck for the moment, and it was better to be prepared. 

Katia: Louis just ate some monkey soup and got sick. He rushed 
into the personal space bathroom before I could stop him. 

I cursed and immediately moved to my menu, clicked over to the 
second tab of my scratch pad, and I erased everything in the notes section, 
including the map and the coordinates. I wrote: Louis, if you see this, 
don’t say a word. The words underlined themselves one by one as the 
magical quill started to write on the paper attached to the inside of the 
toilet-stall door. The underlining stopped at Louis, if you see. 

Warning: You are out of ink. 

I suppressed a growl. Last I’d checked, we’d still had half of a jar left. 
The container sat on a little shelf I’d installed on the inside of the stall, and 
both Katia and Donut knew by now to be careful when they pushed the 


door open since the whole thing wobbled. That idiot must have spilled it, 
especially if he was rushing toward the toilet and slammed into the door. 

The main bathroom in the personal space was like the bathrooms in 
regular saferooms. You walked in, and there was a sink and mirror against 
one wall. The upgraded shower was on one side in the pink-tiled room, and 
the stall was on the other. The metal stall door had a lock on it and looked 
just like any typical bathroom stall one would find anywhere from before. 
They were not exclusive spaces like the random ones throughout the 
dungeon. Inside the wide stall there was a single toilet, a stand-up urinal, 
and a magical litter box. Mordecai, as a shapeshifter, apparently didn’t ever 
use the bathroom unlike Katia. 

NPCs couldn’t enter the bathrooms, or any of the other rooms like the 
training room or crafting room, without being escorted in. When the 
dromedarian kids needed to go, we sent them back out into the safe room or 
just told them to hold it. If that wasn’t possible, like when a god was outside 
trashing the world, Katia escorted them in and removed the paper, ink, and 
quill before they could see it and say something out loud. 

Fellow crawlers were a different story. They had free access to the 
bathroom once they were inside. However, we told everyone to use the 
bathrooms out in the attached saferooms instead. Katia said it was because 
they gave us limited supplies, which was true, but it was also because the 
stall was now the only place we could trade messages without anybody 
seeing. 

We'd started trading messages by using one of Mordecai’s dry erase 
markers against the interior metal, but the cleaner bot kept erasing it. I 
eventually figured out that the magical paper, pen, and quill set—the Coffee 
Shop Author Kit—worked even better since it was two ways. I attached the 
paper to the interior wall using a magnetic clip I’d looted from the Juicer’s 
boss room all the way on the first floor. If Katia wrote something using the 
magical pen, It’d appear in my scratchpad, and I could respond right away. 
Donut could also use it, but it required her to jump on the shelf housing the 
ink and to write on the paper using her mouth. She’d only attempted it once. 
She wrote, I AM NOT USING THIS, CARL, and that was it. 

Katia had removed everything once we packed the personal space with 
refugees, but she’d just replaced the quill and paper to relay some 
information about the coordinates from her latest calculation. She had failed 
to remove it before Louis barged in. 


Louis: Hey Carl, you didn’t tell me your bathroom was haunted! 
Also, don’t eat the monkey soup. It’s gross. 

Carl: We’ll be inside in a minute. Why don’t you check out the 
magical shower? You won’t get the buffs, but I think you can still use it. 

Louis: Uh, okay. 

That would shut him up for a minute. 

We finished positioning the stairwell by the saferoom hatch, which was 
a round, trap door in the rocky ground. I pulled it open, and I went down a 
short ladder into a standard-looking pub. 

Entering the All-Seeing Spleen. 

The saferoom’s proprietor was a human-sized cyclops guy who 
appeared surprised at our entrance. He was dressed in rags and had a 
homeless look about him. His name was Xander. 

“Hey,” the man said. “I thought you lot left. What was all that rumbling 
outside?” 

“Just a god,” I said. “He’s gone now.” 

Xander the cyclops nodded. “At least the prophet is dead. If you want 
food, you’re out of luck. All of my supplies just disappeared. I only have 
cans of Jimbo soup. And crackers.” 

“That’s okay,” I said. “We’re just passing through.” I paused before the 
entrance to the personal space. “Hey, do you know if there are any 
Desperado Clubs near here?” 

The man leaned back and rubbed his grizzled chin. “There was one the 
next crater over, but it’s quite a walk. Dunno if it’s still there. There was one 
in the tunnels, too, but since the Rat Queen died, the bloodworms took over, 
and I wouldn’t dare go in there.” 

“Thanks,” I said. I tossed him a gold coin. He tried to catch it, but he 
missed by a wide margin. We entered the personal space. 


Carl: We’re in the space now. It doesn’t look like we can get to a 
Desperado Club easily, so you’re gonna have to run it. Katia is coming 
over now to help with the coordination. Remind those guys that it has 
to be quick. How many bubbles are we doing? 


Imani: Only eight bubbles have met the requirements. The eighth 
one only has one crawler in it. It’s just over 500 crawlers total, and 
most of them are in the first four groups. There’s several more begging 
for our help, but they’re gonna have to wait until phase two. 

In order for us to help people trapped inside bubbles, they had to meet a 
few requirements. First, they needed someone with access to the Desperado 
Club. Second, all survivors of the bubble had to be in the same quadrant. 

This second requirement was a tough one. We could only feasibly open 
one gate per bubble. It meant three of the four castles had to be taken, 
everyone else had to be dead, or some combination thereof. Sometimes 
people weren’t 100% sure if another quadrant was empty of crawlers. Those 
guys got put on the standby list. We didn’t do it to be assholes, but we 
weren’t about to unleash a feral god in a closed bubble filled with crawlers 
who couldn’t escape. 

That rule was instituted by Imani in exchange for her helping with this. 
She absolutely would not help a bubble’s population escape if it meant 
leaving someone behind, even if it was only one person. 

Elle, apparently, had a knack for telling if someone was lying. She, 
Katia, and Imani were conducting the interviews at the Desperado, and 
she’d already weeded a few crawlers out after it was determined they were 
lying about the populations of their quadrants. Honestly, I was glad I wasn’t 
a part of the process. I really wished there was a way to mass-pop bubbles, 
but if a god such as Emberus couldn’t get inside one, then it didn’t seem 
possible. 

We still had three days left. We told everyone who didn’t meet the 
requirements to do their best. We’d help in any way we could, but there was 
only so much we could do. 

Donut: ALSO, TELL THEM THAT IF THEY TRY TO STEAL 
THE GATE, CARL WILL RIP THEIR ARMS OFF LIKE HE DID TO 
QUAN. 

Imani: Did you really rip his arm off? 

Donut: ALL THE WAY TO THE SHOULDER. IT CAME OFF 
LIKE A PIECE OF CHICKEN. CARL KEPT THE ARM AND IS 
GOING TO USE IT AS A BACK SCRATCHER. 

Elle: God, I hope they put that on the show tonight. 

Carl: Remind them how dangerous it is. Don’t linger. Just hop right 
through and stay away from the open gate. 


The plan was pretty simple. Everyone in each group had to gather 
outside the entrance of the Desperado Club in their bubble. The person in 
the first group would enter and obtain the gate pieces. Once outside, they’d 
dial into the coordinates provided by Katia, and the gate would open. Since 
the distance wasn’t that great, the amount of time was usually less than a 
minute for the portal to open. The gate would open, and they’d all go 
through. They would end up in Hump Town just outside the Desperado. 
The gatekeeper would be the last. The moment they went through, the gate 
would close, and a feral god would appear in their still-closed bubble. 
While this was happening, the gatekeeper would return to the Desperado 
and hand the gate to the next in line, who would do it all over again. 

Once the gate was handed off, Langley’s team would escort the refugees 
to the stairwell, where they would descend. We didn’t want a huge crowd 
gathering atop the bowl—which was now a half bowl thanks to Orthrus—so 
we made it a rule they had to descend immediately. 

If phase one went smoothly, this whole process would take about a half 
hour. 

By the time we were done, there’d be eight feral gods trapped in 
bubbles and quite possibly eight real gods prowling around the lacuna 
looking for them. 

The last thing we wanted was eight more world quests like the last one. 
It was a risk that could very easily backfire in a dozen different ways. 
Mordecai’s advice was for everybody to just stay in their saferooms if a god 
attacked their world. He or she would eventually go away, especially if 
another god started roaming around nearby. 

“Gods have a tendency to either fight or start fucking—usually both— 
when they encounter each other outside the twelfth floor,” Mordecai had 
said when we started planning this. “The best way to distract a god is with 
another god. When that happens, they get unsummoned pretty quickly. I’ve 
seen it happen a dozen times.” 

I had two major worries with this plan. One was that Grull—or some 
other sponsored deity—would get summoned and would make a beeline 
toward our world to screw everything up. A second was that Maggie, who 
was pinging around our bubble somewhere, would try the same. We’d 
ferried Gwen’s team up onto the bowl, and they were acting as lookouts, but 
so far nobody had seen signs of her. 


Imani: Okay, everybody. We’re going to start the extractions. Pass 
it on to all of your contacts. If you’re not a part of the groups, get to a 
saferoom. If your bubble is popped, it’s probably a good idea to go 
down the stairs. If you see a god, call it out in the chat so we can keep 
track of them all. 

“Here we go,” I said out loud. There was nobody in here except the 
dromedarians and changelings. 

I’d sent Louis out to escort Katia to the Desperado. After, he and Firas 
would help wrangle the refugees. He’d blurted out a few things about our 
bathroom being “haunted” and was about to say something else, but Katia 
had put her hand on his shoulder and squeezed so hard, even he finally 
realized to shut the hell up. Still, an observant fan would probably figure 
out what he was yammering about. I hoped any such revelations would get 
lost in the noise. I sent Donut into her room to observe her social media 
board. If she saw any hints that the masses suspected what we were really 
planning, she’d warn us. 

Mordecai was back in the crafting room, working on the second potion 
he’d made with the yam. Each one only took about an eighth of the 
vegetable, and I told him we better have at least three, one for me, Katia, 
and Donut. 

At this point, there wasn’t anything else I could do but wait. On the 
main screen in the saferoom, the kids were watching The Last Unicorn. 
Juice Box was in her human form with little Bonnie the gnome sitting on 
her lap. I watched the woman for a few moments as she stroked the kid’s 
head. I thought of all the NPCs I’d killed on this floor. 

I thought of the tens of thousands we were planning on killing during 
phase four of the plan. 

They’re better off dead. We are freeing them. 

I thought of Coolie, the cookbook author who’d sacrificed everything 
just in an attempt to kill two admins. I thought of Priestly, who wrote the 
14" edition and was the single best source of info on the ninth floor. I 
wondered what either would do in my situation. 

Coolie would do exactly what you’re doing. Priestly would not. 

But first, Donut and I needed to make it back to bubble 543. We were 
planning on making the journey tomorrow, after phase two. 

But we weren’t going to risk it if there were a bunch of crazed gods 
running around out there. This next hour was crucial, and it would 


determine what happened next. The fact I wasn’t actively participating was 
driving me up the wall. I’d been purposely putting off opening my boxes so 
Pd have a distraction. 

Everyone else had already opened their platinum quest boxes. Most 
everyone got great stuff. Most of it was spell books. Donut received a tome 
of Twinkle Toes, a cheap spell which made Mongo—or any other minion— 
run really fast for as many seconds as her intelligence level. She’d been 
pretty excited about it. 

Katia also received a spell called Hanzo, which drew mobs closer to her. 
Louis and Firas also got spellbooks, but I wasn’t sure what. Gwen got a new 
spear she was pretty stoked about. Tran received a subscription box similar 
to Donut’s tome of the floor club, but for scrolls. 

I moved to open my achievements now. 

An organ played hymnal music as this first achievement appeared. 

New Achievement! Man of God! 

Ever since that first monkey looked up into the sky and saw 
something twinkling up there, you meat puppets have tried to force 
twenty pounds of existential meaning into a ten pound sack of chaos. 

You have found religion! You have pledged yourself to a life of 
worship and piety! Finally. Now there are consequences for all of your 
actions! 

Reward: One of the greatest things about having a religion is the 
unshakeable certainty that you’re right and everyone else who doesn’t 
believe the same as you is wrong! That’s a pretty good reward. Oh, and 
don’t forget about the eternal life thing, too. That’s always one of their 
big selling points. 

I grunted with amusement. A little changeling kid sat at the end of the 
kitchen bar and was staring at me. I looked at him and said, “The System AI 
is totally going to hell.” 

“Okay,” the kid replied, not appreciating my lame attempt at humor. He 
turned back to the movie. 

New Achievement! Disarming Personality! 

You ripped a fellow crawler’s arm off! With your bare hands! Holy 
shit! 

Reward: You’ve received a Silver Savage Box! 

I received a few other airplane-related ones plus an achievement for 
sustaining a certain amount of damage while invulnerable, but each only 


resulted in low-tier adventurer boxes that contained nothing special except 
another potion of dinosaur repellent. 

I only had two more boxes to open. My fan box still had another twelve 
hours on it. 

This was my first savage box. They were meant for player killers, and I 
was not looking forward to whatever this was. I wanted to avoid getting a 
skull if I could. I cringed as the box opened. 

A pair of handcuffs popped out. They were encased in red, fuzzy velvet. 

Enchanted Handcuffs. 

My safe word is, “Harder, Daddy.” 

You know what these are. Your mom had a pair in her drawer, and 
your dad was probably no stranger to these things, either. 

Used to lock a person’s arms together at the wrist. This set of 
novelty handcuffs is magically reinforced. Requires a strength of at 
least 200 to break. There’s no key. These are locked and unlocked 
magically by you. You may also institute an optional safe word or 
phrase that disengages. 

“Oh for fuck’s sake,” I said, putting the fuzzy handcuffs away. 

The platinum quest box contained a magical tome. I picked the book up 
and turned it over in my hands. The black, leather hardback was warm to 
the touch and had a skull on the cover. I looked up at the ceiling and 
grinned. “It’s nice to see we’re on the same wavelength for once.” I opened 
the book, which caused it to glow. The spell added itself to my list. 

Ping 

Cost: 5 Mana 

Also known as, “Here piggy, piggy,” or “The Night Dread,” Ping is 
a hunting and artillery-aiming tool for those who do not care if their 
quarry knows they’re coming. 

The elven gunnery officers of the Dream all learn this spell the 
moment they hit adulthood. Anyone who sits in a trench lives in abject 
terror of the noise this spell creates. 

Target: An area of one kilometer around the caster plus 500 meters 
for every ten points of intelligence. Environmental factors and obstacles 
may increase or decrease range. 

Duration: Instantaneous. Ping travels at the speed of sound. 

Cooldown: Five minutes. 


Sends out an audible ping that gives the distance and location of all 
non-crawlers and non-red-tagged mobs in a circle around you. It will 
mark targets beyond the range of your map. Targets hit with Ping will 
hear an audible ping noise, but they will not know from where the ping 
originates. 

Higher levels increases the amount of information about the target. 

At level 5, you may imbue the ping with Fear. 

It was disappointing that the spell didn’t work on mobs or crawlers, but 
that was okay. This was a spell meant to be used on the sixth and ninth 
floor. It would find NPCs, and more importantly, it would find both elites 
and hunters. 

Katia: It worked! The first group is coming through now. 

Donut: DID THE GUY STEAL THE GATE? 

Katia: No, he’s through and has already handed it off to the next 
group. They came through really fast. 

Louis: They’re all crying, they’re so happy. A hot orc chick just 
hugged me. 

Firas: That was totally a dude. And don’t let Juice Box know. 

Carl: Okay, good. Keep me updated. 

I hunkered down and waited for the hammer to fall. 


OceanofPDF.com 


Les J 


<Note from Crawler Priestly. 14" Edition> 

Larracos is like a dream. It is a living, breathing poem. A song. 
One that marks itself indelibly onto your bones the moment you 
experience it the first time. I’ve never seen anything like it. It’s an 
inverted funnel of museums and galleries and colleges and of color. 
The NPCs live here. They have purpose and life. For the first time 
since we have been dragged into this horror, I feel awe and wonder 
and something other than rage. But it is a tainted and fleeting 
feeling. This city should not be here. It is too beautiful to be used in 
such a terrible, senseless way. 

I still don’t fully understand the fable with the volcano and the 
centipede at the bottom and what sort of metaphor, if any, it’s 
supposed to represent, but whoever designed this wonder at the 
center of the ninth floor was someone who appreciates fine detail 
and the art of turning the mundane into visual music. It is too 
beautiful, too real not to be a copy of someplace that truly existed, 
and it is difficult for my mind to make sense of it. For the first time, I 
don’t know where the real ends and the nightmare begins, and it has 
taken my breath away. 

The Semeru dwarves supposedly built it, but they don’t control 
the city. Not anymore. They’re still around, mostly in the pubs. 
They’re also the non-combatant caretakers of the inverted castle, 
which sits in the center of the city at the bottom of the well. 

The diameter of Larracos isn’t that great. It’s smaller than some 
of the cities on the Hunting Grounds. But the city itself has layers, 


going deeper and deeper, like an inverted cone. My culture has a 
story of a people who built a tower to reach the gods before the gods 
struck it down and scattered them all. I believe that legend is what 
this city represents. The Semeru were attempting to reach the 
Celestials who live not above, but below them. This action somehow 
awakened Scolopendra at the very base of the volcano. 

This city thrives. Each level is something new and exciting. 
There are districts. One with theaters. Museums. Colleges filled with 
bright-eyed NPC students. Temples. Stores. Tonight, before we are 
expelled, I plan on sitting down and enjoying a play. A play, in this 
place. Can you believe it? 

I will draw a map for you. The one Milk drew is still good, but it 
lacks detail. 

The alien beasts congregate in the pleasure districts. I don’t dare 
venture down there, lest my impression of this fantasy is tainted. 
That’s where one may find the Desperado Club and the brothels. It’s 
where they hire their mercenaries, though I hear those markets are 
already bled dry. It’s where they trade their wares and buy their 
weapons from the murderers who cleaved through us like chaff on 
that nightmare of a sixth floor. 

The aliens get expelled when we do. Less than thirty hours until 
the fighting begins. 

They’ll be back. Once only three armies remain, they’ll be able 
to re-enter the city, and it will be destroyed. They say by the time the 
fighting is over, none of these NPCs are left alive. None of these 
buildings stand. It is all destroyed in the pursuit of an imaginary 
prize. This makes my heart hurt. This volcano world is obviously a 
fairy tale. But is this city real? It looks real. It smells real. There is 
history here. And if so, what’s the purpose of giving this to us? To 
show us a wonder that once existed, to remind us that they don’t 
care what they destroy? To beat us further into submission? 

And what of the NPCs? What of their suffering? 

I fear what will happen to my mind when I see it destroyed. 


AFTER AN HOUR, IT BECAME CLEAR THAT PHASE ONE WAS A ROUSING 
success. It was frustrating that nobody was left to see what specific feral 
god was summoned, though we did manage to get info on a few of the 
bubbles. The second-to-last bubble was right next to Elle and Imani’s 
world, and Elle braved going out there to take a look. Whatever had been 
summoned was much too big for the bubble and had simply exploded when 
it appeared, filling the interior ball with gore. A minute later, the bubble 
automatically opened on its own—apparently because the explosion killed 
the remaining defenders—and it caused all the gore to slop out into the 
lacuna. The entire level with now filled with a horrific stench. Elle said it 
was absolutely unbearable in their area. 

Another crawler reported that a nearby bubble had a massive turkey 
inside of it, about the same size of Orthrus. That bubble, too, broke on its 
own, and now the feral turkey god was hopping about, randomly pecking at 
worlds. It wasn’t attacking anything, and at last report it was sitting there 
near the exploded remains of the other feral god and was gobbling up the 
gore. Because of the turkey’s proximity to their bubble, all of the remaining 
Team Meadow Lark members were forced down the stairs, leaving only 
Imani and Elle in their bubble. 

Li Jun, who’d managed to finish off their last castle, reported that a 
nearby bubble was filled with a screaming monster covered in tentacles. All 
of their bubble and teammates had already fled down the stairs, but siblings 
Li Jun and Li Na remained, keeping an eye on their neighboring bubble for 
us. 

As for regular gods, only three showed up. But as Mordecai said, they 
all went away on their own after a few hours. None were sponsored. They 
did plenty of damage to open worlds, but we didn’t know of any casualties. 
There were no more world quests. None came anywhere near bubble 543. 

We were about to initiate phase two, which was the same as phase one. 
Only this time it was with worlds where the crawlers were uncertain if the 
other quadrants were empty. Two additional worlds had also managed to 
make themselves eligible for phase one, so we were doing those first. This 
second phase was a total of fifteen worlds for about 800 more people. 

I looked over at the counter for surviving crawlers. It continued to fall, 
despite half of the survivors having already descended to the sixth floor. 

99,754 


We’d fallen under 100,000. This floor had already killed almost half of 
the survivors of the previous. The numbers were mind-numbing. All of this 
work, and for what? We were just delaying the inevitable. It was hard not to 
fall into that trap, not to allow the sheer horror of it all to shatter your 
resolve. 

I thought of Priestly. In the end, he’d been broken by the system. He’d 
been unable to take it. Seeing that city destroyed as he marched with the 
bugbear army over the corpses of the NPCs, including the bodies of actors 
he’d watched perform in a play, had been it for him. He’d finally snapped 
what sanity he had left. His last entry had been shortly after that and was an 
incoherent jumble of words. 

So much. So little. Stab, stab, stab. If I fall, if I stand. It matters not 
when the song is done. 

A hand fell on my shoulder, and I jumped in surprise. It was Juice Box. 

“Hey, are you okay, big guy? You’ve been sitting there looking all tense 
and angry for a few minutes. You’re scaring the children.” 

“T’m okay. It’s just weird being the one who has to wait for all of this to 
play out.” 

She nodded. “Didn’t you just crash a drop bear into a god’s face?” 

“That was hours ago.” 

“You remind me of my brother,” she said. “You need to be careful. He 
always had to be moving, always pushing toward his goal. When an 
obstacle popped up in front of him he couldn’t figure out, he finally pushed 
too hard. If he had waited, he’d still be alive.” 

I had no response to that. Mordecai emerged from the crafting room to 
look distastefully at the mess. The kids were now watching The Goonies. 
The changelings were all emulating portly little humans and dancing with 
their Hawaiian shirts up, exposing their bellies. 

Donut remained in her room, glued to the social media board. Her 
addiction to the thing was starting to worry me. She occasionally popped 
out to complain about someone who said something mean, but she and 
Mongo were having some much-needed alone time. 

The recap episode came and went. It didn’t show anything about the 
gods and the Orthrus quest or the folks escaping their bubbles using the 
gate, but it was clear they were saving it all for the next episode. I watched 
Li Na and Li Jun battle a crab monster to defeat their final castle. Their 
world had started with barely any water, but there was some storyline where 


the waterline was constantly rising the entire time. By the time they 
defeated the last castle, their entire bubble was submerged. When it popped, 
water splashed all over the lacuna. Apparently that ended up killing a few 
crawlers who’d gotten out and were exploring the dark fog that filled the 
ground there. 

Mordecai and Donut came out to listen to the announcement. Katia and 
the others remained out there, preparing for phase two. 

Hello, Crawlers, 

What an exciting day! We never expected to have so many gods 
running around this early. You are all so very spunky, and we really 
appreciate that. The ratings have never been higher! 

After some very careful discussions, some unfortunate litigation 
that we won, and with the input from the Syndicate, we have decided to 
allow this method of bubble escape to continue. However, we have been 
forced to block some—but not all—of the secondary summonings. The 
feral gods who’ve been escaping are random, and sometimes new even 
to us. Each feral who appears has a 66% chance to summon a 
corresponding deity. One of the resulting summoned gods was Ysalte, 
the Vinegar Bitch. That would have been an extinction-level event for 
this floor and the next. As exciting as that would be, we still have 
another floor of sponsorship bidding to get through before we can 
allow it. We are at 33% of the projected capacity for the sixth floor, and 
nobody wants that number to go lower than that. So, congratulations. 
Opening that gate will still unleash a feral god, but the odds of 
summoning an active god in the process is now much less. 

Since so many of you are choosing to descend early, we’ve decided 
we better get some sixth floor information out of the way. 

Many of you have classes that will allow you to specialize and 
upgrade yourselves upon descent. This process will be similar to class 
selection on the third floor. For most of you, specialization is optional, 
but it would behoove you to read through all the provided selections. 

In addition, I am happy to announce the guild system will become 
active on the sixth floor. This will allow you to better organize parties 
and share personal space upgrades without forcing a person to join 
your party. The sixth floor Bopcas will have more information. The 
process will be a bit expensive, but if you sell your unwanted gear on 


the market, it should be do-able for most crawlers. We highly 
recommend you take advantage of it. 

And finally, some of you may have heard by now that third-party 
tourists will be joining us on the next floor. And they’ll be hunting you 
and your gear. Isn’t that exciting? 

We have a record number of hunters participating this season 
thanks to a generous, anonymous sponsor who was willing to pay entry 
fees for anyone who wanted to join in on the fun. And people from all 
corners of the galaxy are taking advantage. Isn’t that fantastic? 

Now get out there and kill, kill, kill! 

Pd been all but certain that Borant would institute some sort of patch to 
stop this madness, but they’d actually done the opposite. They’d apparently 
saved our asses. 

They needed us to die on their schedule, not ours. 

“Pm not surprised,” Mordecai said. “They love it when you guys do 
stupid, suicidal stuff, but when it involves the entire population, they start to 
get alarmed. Don’t expect them to cushion your fall once all the 
sponsorships are done.” 

I watched as the number of living crawlers ticked down by one. Then by 
three. 


“I don’t see why Louis and Firas couldn’t just come and pick us up,” Donut 
grumbled as we brushed ourselves off. A dark fog surrounded us, and the 
air stank like dead meat. A couple of inches of water sat on the ground, 
much to Donut’s dismay. Even with her Torch spell, the lacuna was 
oppressively dark. In the distance, I heard the screech of the goddamned 
turkey. 

It was eerily quiet down here. And damp. I felt claustrophobic, despite 
the lack of ceiling and walls. It felt as if we’d fallen into a sewer. I looked 
up at the edge of the bubble we’d just plummeted off. It’d been pretty far. 

“I don’t want them leaving 543 and risking the Twister. They’re gonna 
have to leave in a few days, and if something happens to the balloon before 
then, it’ll screw everything up.” 

“They still have to leave to pick us up,” Donut grumbled. 


“Yeah, but we’ll be right there. Come on,” I said as I pulled the chariot 
from inventory and prepared it. “We’ll be there in less than an hour.” 

Phase two was now finished, and we’d managed to save about 1,500 
crawlers total. We’d added a few additional bubbles at the last minute. The 
gate was back in Katia’s possession. Nobody had tried to steal it, much to 
Donut’s surprise. 

I wished that number of saved crawlers was higher, but more and more 
bubbles were popping on their own thanks to the work of the survivors 
inside. 

A distressing amount of bubbles had gone dark. 

There were also bubbles where the people inside had no access to the 
Desperado Club or Club Vanquisher—which was still closed for repairs. It 
turned out if you destroyed the entry pub to the Desperado, or the church 
for the Vanquisher, it removed access to the club. For those crawlers, we 
could only offer our sympathies and advice. 

The only feral gods we unleashed into the lacuna were the giant turkey 
and what appeared to be a city-sized swarm of insects. Luckily, the swarm 
remained in the general area of their bubble number 801, way on the far 
side. It’d eventually dispersed. In addition, we’d summoned five more gods. 
These gods did more damage but eventually went away. I never got to see 
any of them. 

The turkey was actually the most dangerous of anything we summoned. 
It was now sitting on top of some random popped bubble and screaming. It 
had evidently tripled in size after it ate the remainder of the exploded feral 
god. The thing was level 150. 

I heard through the chat lines that Miriam Dom and Prepotente were 
attempting to kill it using their debuff method. 

After Phase two ended, we waited a few hours for anything else to 
happen. Nothing did once the five gods wandered off. Donut and I couldn’t 
wait any longer. After getting the chariot back from Langley and doing 
some repairs, we decided to make the treacherous journey across the lacuna 
back to bubble 543. Getting out of our current bubble was the most difficult 
part. Donut attached herself to me as I did a spiderman impersonation using 
only my feet on the side of the almost-invisible bottom half of the bubble. 
Once I found the lip, we both used a half-splat to fall into the dark fog of 
the lacuna. 


The ground here was completely flat. A few red dots appeared on the 
edge of my vision, but they shied away from us. Donut said they were 
small, like rats. I used my new Ping spell to see if any weird NPCs or 
hidden, small-sized gods were out here, and there was nothing. 

We didn’t waste time. I revved up the chariot, and we were off. I kept a 
lookout for the Xs of crawlers, but I didn’t see anything. Even here, there 
were janitor mobs at work. 

The pickup went as planned, and we were soon back atop the bowl, 
which had broken in half. With the lip gone from the bowl, the world up 
here had taken on a new appearance. A nearby, closed and glowing bubble 
dominated the distant horizon, like the curve of a planet as seen from space. 

“Its pretty,” Donut said as we landed. 

It was oddly beautiful, until I remembered each intact bubble was 
potentially a tombstone, a monument to crawlers who’d fallen victim to this 
fifth floor. 

“Welcome home,” Firas said as we landed just outside of Hump Town. 

A small crowd of crawlers had gathered to watch us descend. They 
started clapping as we alighted. 

“I thought everyone had gone down the stairs already,” I said. 

“Obviously not, Carl,” Donut said, stiffening on my shoulder. She 
waved. “People know they wouldn’t have been saved without you and me. 
Now wave at them and don’t look so grumpy.” 

A crocodilian stood in the front of the crowd, standing with Katia as we 
landed. He stepped forward and gave me a fist bump. 

“Hello, Florin,” I said. “I’m glad to see you made it out.” 

The man rested his weight on his Mossberg shotgun. The modified and 
now-magical weapon supposedly had unlimited ammo. “I managed to get 
three of the castles on my own, but that last air one was impossible. Thanks 
to you and Elle and Katia, I am free.” He looked at Donut. “You, too, pretty 
girl.” 

Donut preened. “Oh, you’re quite welcome.” 

He’d been the last rescue of the first phase. He’d gotten access to the 
Desperado Club because he’d “killed” Ifechi. He had a golden player killer 
mark over his head, similar to Katia’s. They were the only two marks like 
that in the dungeon. 

“I’m glad to have helped,” I said. 

He nodded. 


“I’m headin’ down the stairs since there’s no more training to be had, 
but I wanted to meet you first. I understand you’re going to throw a feral 
god onto the ninth floor to jumble them up a bit. Good for you, mate. I’m 
looking forward to hearing about it.” 

“That’s the plan,” I said. I looked up. “We’re going to fuck those guys 
up. We’re going to toss a god right into the camp of the Skull Empire.” 

He leaned forward and clasped me on the shoulder with his green, 
scaled hand. He kept his hand up there, and suddenly it was super awkward. 
He stared at me with his dark, intense eyes. 

“I was done, mate. I didn’t have anything,” he said, suddenly emotional. 
“You should have met her. My Ife. She was amazing. A ray of light. She 
was the bravest, kindest person I’d ever met. She gave me hope. I was done 
until I went into the club, and I met Elle. She told me a story about this man 
and his cat who’d stopped everything he was doing to help a group of old 
people in wheelchairs and how this same man was planning on using this 
artifact he’d found to save people stuck in their bubbles. And it reminded 
me that Ife wasn’t the only one. That there is good in this world. There is 
something left to fight for. I might die tomorrow, but it won’t be because 
I’ve given up. And I want to thank you for that.” 

“I’m just doing the best I can,” I said, not sure what else to say. The 
dude’s claw was still on my shoulder. I reached up and clumsily patted it. 

He retracted his arm quickly, as if surprised by my touch. “If you ever 
need a backup gun, I’m in your debt.” Then just like that, he turned and 
walked away. We watched him walk away in silence. He went straight to 
the stairwell, and without turning around, he disappeared. 

“That dude is pretty intense,” I said. 

“T like him. Still, that would’ve been much more emotional if he wasn’t 
a disgusting crocodile man,” Donut whispered after he was gone. “He’s 
really dirty, too. He smells like a dead frog. And how does he get that shirt 
on with such a giant head?” 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said through gritted teeth. “Don’t say that shit 
out loud.” 


Time to Level Collapse: 7 hours. 


“You know what, Carl?” Donut asked as we sat at the booth at the 
Desperado Club. She sipped on a nonalcoholic Shirley temple as the Sledge 
stood unnecessarily nearby. The three of us were the only crawlers here. 
“Tm worried the ending is going to be anticlimactic. What if this doesn’t 
work? Then what?” 

“Then we go down the stairs, Donut. It doesn’t always have to end with 
a giant fight or an explosion. We’re alive. We’ve already done enough this 
floor.” 

The last two days had been a blur. My fingertip itched with phantom 
pain where I'd made my daily blood offering. The mobs were all gone from 
the air quadrant, so all that was left was to train. I’d also spent time—too 
much time, really—showing the others how to dominate in the game 
Frogger. 

The large, stand-up video game machine was not the same exact one my 
father had in our basement growing up. But it was similar. I’d had to rig up 
a dwarven battery to make it work. It’d been in my fan box. I’d mentioned 
the game more than once in my conversations with Katia and Donut, and 
they’d run with it. I wasn’t certain, but I suspected it was an attempt at 
trolling me or a way to block a better prize. Pd never know. In the end, it 
ended up being exactly what I needed. 

Itd been breathing room, a way to relax. It brought me back to a distant 
memory of happiness, even if it was just for a moment. I’d only gotten good 
at the game because I’d always been locked away in the basement while my 
dad had friends over. Still, you could do that. You could take a terrible 
situation and still find moments of peace, even joy. I needed to be reminded 
that was possible, and the game console did exactly that. 

We’d ended up performing three more rescues using the gate. Two of 
the three summoned additional gods, who turned on each other and both 
disappeared. There was no sign of Chris and Maggie. The general 
consensus was that they’d gone down the stairs. I wasn’t so certain. 

Gwen and Tran and their team had ventured into the now-dry 
subterranean level and managed to loot the remains of the tomb raiders and 
unearth the tomb of Anser, which was just a sarcophagus filled with the 
skeleton of a goose wearing a golden, unenchanted crown. Electrifying the 
water had triggered all of the traps. Quetzalcoatlus’s corpse contained a 


partial map of the sixth floor that contained coordinates of multiple 
locations. 

“It does have to end with a giant explosion! I promised Katia it would 
always end that way.” 

Katia sat across from us at the table. She was staring down at her drink, 
mixing it idly. She hadn’t reacted to Donut’s explosion comment. She was 
in her own little world. 

“Out with it,” I finally said. 

She looked up, and she sighed. She’d been quiet like this for a few days 
now. She took a deep breath. 

“I don’t want to mess up the personal space situation,” she finally said. 

I just blinked. 

“But?” I asked. 

“But I think we need to separate the next floor down.” 

“What?” Donut asked. “You’re breaking up with us? What did Carl 
do?” She looked at me. “What did you do, Carl?” 

Katia laughed softly. She reached forward and put a hand on Donut’s 
paw. “He didn’t do anything. It’s because of Eva. I’ve been talking to her, 
and I’ve been talking to all the former daughters. She’s trying to gather 
them back to her. Some are actually doing it.” 

I knew she’d been talking to people. But Eva? Eva had tried to kill her. 
Katia had tried to kill Eva. 

“You want to join back up with Eva?” I asked, astounded. 

“No, of course not. She has... increased her player killer marks. Do you 
remember Silfa? The fairy? Used to own a bakery?” 

“Yes,” I said. Silfa was an older woman who’d turned herself into a 
healer. She had two of her own daughters with her. Hekla and Eva had used 
her as bait, trying to get me to kill her. It seemed so long ago. 

“She’s dead, and so are her two daughters. Despite everything, they’d 
formed a new party with Eva. I tried talking them out of it, but they didn’t 
listen. And Eva got them killed. A few others are tempted to return to Eva 
because nobody will take them in. I couldn’t do anything this floor, but the 
next will be an open world. I need to gather the former daughters and 
protect them. Before Eva does. Before someone else realizes how 
vulnerable they are. We shouldn’t have just let them spread out and away. It 
was a death sentence, and I can’t stop thinking about it. And if Eva insists 
on pursuing the matter, I need to take care of that, too.” 


“We’re a team, Katia,” Donut said, sounding hurt. “We can do this 
together. We can help you. You can just ask.” 

“No,” Katia said. “I love both of you, but the path you’re on right 
now.... With the ring and the hunters and all of it? You two already have 
too much on your plate for the next floor. Not to mention that Tsarina 
Signet storyline. When you’re in the Carl and Donut party, you ride on the 
Carl and Donut rollercoaster, and once it gets going, there’s no getting off. I 
need to do this.” 

She was right. If this was something she wanted to do, I feared my 
presence would be more of a hindrance than a help. But I’d come to rely on 
her. Pd been taking her presence for granted, and now she was leaving. But 
still, going at it alone? That was suicidal. 

“You need to do this? Even if you end up dead?” I asked. 

“Yes,” she said. “You need to understand something. My whole life I 
have been in that back seat. I have you to thank for helping me realize what 
I can do. But you being gone for those days was also really important. It 
showed me I can do this without your help. I don’t want to leave the party. 
Like I said, itll mess up the personal space. But maybe this new guild 
system will be a good compromise.” 

“What if you get lonely?” Donut asked. She was about to start crying. 
“And what if Mongo wants his Aunt Katia to scratch between his feathers?” 

“Until we figure out how it’ll work, I won’t leave the party. We’ll see 
each other every night in the personal space,” she said. “And I won’t be 
alone. Louis and Firas, Gwen and her team, Daniel and a few of his friends, 
and Florin have all agreed to help me. We’re going to be a pretty big party.” 

“You and Gwen are always fighting!” Donut said. 

“Bautista?” I asked. “Since when have you been talking to Bautista?” 

“Pve been talking to him since that day we rescued him on the Iron 
Tangle. He’s... very lost, and he needs this, too. Same with Florin.” 

I wanted to argue. I wanted to say, please don’t leave me. But it was 
clear she’d already made up her mind. 

“At least you’ll have the Twister with you,” I said. “And this.” I pulled 
the sword from my inventory. The Left Fang of the Green Sultan. The 
magical properties of the deadly saber only worked when it was matched 
with its brother. It was half of Eva’s main weapon, and she’d dropped it. 
“Make sure you return it to its rightful owner.” 


Katia picked the saber up and regarded it. It glinted with green, 
venomous light. She nodded, and the sword disappeared into her inventory. 
“PII make sure of it.” 

We watched the timer click down. Two seconds after it hit six hours 
until level collapse, phase three would be implemented. 

Imani, Elle, Louis and Firas, along with a whole mess of changelings 
were going to open up a portal to the sixth floor. This was on Imani and 
Elle’s bubble. 

This was going to be the first feral god we summoned outside of a 
bubble. Even as far away as it was, it was ridiculously dangerous. 

Louis and Firas had braved the lacuna and managed to actually find the 
proper world. The only other crawler they’d brought with them was Britney, 
the sole-surviving member of the water quadrant other than Chris. The 
Ukrainian woman had latched onto Firas for some inexplicable reason. 
They’d ferried a house full of changelings to the distant bubble. There were 
so many of the changelings, including adults who’d survived the Orthrus 
attack, that they didn’t all fit onto the house. They’d transformed into geese 
and coasted alongside the flying machine, like a caravan. 

Once the portal opened, the changelings would return to the sixth floor. 

The journey of the Twister from our bubble to Imani and Elle’s world 
was thankfully uneventful. The turkey was now dead, having been 
successfully killed by Prepotente, who’d gained eight levels in the process, 
bringing him up to 55 and making him the highest in the dungeon. The last 
recap episode showed him gnawing on the universe’s largest feather and 
screaming over and over while Miriam Dom the vampire shepherd stroked 
his hair. 

Mordecai insisted that the portal would not allow crawler passage from 
floor to floor, even if it was just one floor down, so we were sending the 
Twister through with the changelings, but without Louis and Firas. 
Immediately after, they were going to go through the regular stairwell 
where hopefully they’d be able to recover the flying house. Imani and Elle 
would return to the club, hand off the gate to us, and also go down the stairs 
before the portal in their bubble expired and summoned the feral god. 

With the gate back in our possession, we’d then implement the final 
phase. 

Li Jun: Carl, we’ll be going down in a minute. That other bubble 
with the tentacle monster is still intact. It’s not moving around so much 


anymore, so I think it’s going to stay put. 

Carl: Okay, guys. Be careful. 

Li Jun: You too. That woman is here, by the way. The one with the 
shopping cart. She just pulled up out of nowhere and entered the 
stairwell. She didn’t talk to us, and she went down before the six hour 
mark. I don’t know where she came from. She’s only level 12. 

Carl: Yeah, that’s Agatha. We just ignore Agatha. Best of luck to 
you. If this guild system is what I think it’ll be, look us up. 

Li Jun: We will. 

A moment passed, and the six hour mark hit. 

Imani: It worked. The changelings are through. On our way back to 
the club. 

Louis: God, I hope they don’t wreck the Twister. That Skarn kid is a 
good pilot, but he’s a little shit. I caught him charging a gold coin to the 
other kids so they could fly it. Bonnie the gnome kid said she wanted to 
install some upgrades, so we need to find them as soon as possible 
before they ruin it. 

Carl: You two be careful. Stay sober. The hunters will be gunning 
for you right away. Keep your eyes open. 

Firas: Thank you, Carl and Donut. Katia, see you in a bit. 

Imani and Elle rushed into the club. They both looked exhausted. We 
needed to hurry. Katia walked up to Elle and gave the floating woman a 
long hug. She pulled back. “You guys be careful, okay?” 

“We always are,” Elle said. She gave me a little wink and patted Donut 
on the head. “I’m looking forward to being able to mix it up with you guys 
again. This floor was a real drag having to do it all myself.” 

“Come on,” Imani said, all business. “We need to go.” She paused, then 
looked me in the eye. “Send me a message, one way or the other.” 

I nodded. 

Elle pulled the three gate pieces from her inventory and handed them to 
me. “Here you go.” 

I took the three items and pulled them into my inventory. I turned to 
Katia. She had entered the Desperado on the ground level, and this was 
where we were going to separate. I pulled her into a tight hug. Donut was 
suddenly there on my shoulder, also rubbing up against Katia. Katia 
wrapped her arms around me, widening them like the flaps on a stingray, 


hugging us so completely, it felt as if I was being wrapped up like a burrito. 
This would be the last time we were together on this floor. 

We stood like that for several moments. 

Phase four had officially begun. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 34 ] 


<Note added by Crawler Porthus, 2" Edition> 

I don’t know why this journal came to me, but I don’t feel it will 
ever be enough. I have done my best, adding little things here and 
there to the meager, mostly-useless recipes. How many generations 
before this book truly has enough information to make a difference? 
Too many, I fear. As the first to receive these words, and now, as the 
author of the second edition, I feel inadequate. I have not done 
enough. 

I have decided to accept the deal. I don’t know what will become 
of me, but I swear on the name of all my fallen brothers and sisters, 
one day I will make them pay. It seems those who live outside our 
world can exist for thousands of years. I don’t know how this is 
possible, but if I survive my 100 seasons of servitude, I will do 
everything I can to end this horror. I don’t know if I have the 
strength, but I will do my best to not be broken. 

This will be my last entry into this book, but I am not yet done 
with the enemy. As long as I have breath, I will fight. 


Time to level collapse: five hours, 30 minutes. 


I TOOK OUT THE TWO WATCHES AND CLINKED THEM IN THE WINDING BOX. I 
placed the box right there into the sand dune atop the bowl, about ten 


meters away from the stairwell. I dug the box in so it wouldn’t shift and get 
messed with. If the box moved more than five feet in any direction once it 
was set and counting down, the gate would get canceled. It was completely 
dark out here. The only light was the distant sliver of a dead bubble, 
glowing from within like they’d accidentally nuked themselves, and the 
world was now irradiated. 

A light breeze that smelled like cooked turkey wafted across the world. 

Langley and his archers were now the only other crawlers left up here 
with me and Donut. Langley stood beside me, watching as I pushed the box 
deeper into the sand. I stood and wiped my hands on my boxers. 

“What’s your plan?” I asked. 

Langley cracked his neck. He was now level 32. He’d gained eight 
levels since I’d first met him. “We’re going down there, and we’re going to 
keep doing what we’ve been doing. Katia asked if we wanted to work with 
her new team, but I am thinking we might join up with some others. We’ll 
see. There are many large groups forming. The Popov brothers are looking 
for archers. They wish to hunt down team Cichociemni, who have been 
preying on weak crawlers. We need to break up the player killer groups 
before they get too strong, so we might join up with them.” 

I shook the man’s hand, and I wished him luck. The group turned and 
left. 

“They all lived,” Donut said. “Not those weirdos in the other quadrants, 
but all the ones in our quadrant made it.” 

I reached over and scratched her head. 

It was just me, Donut, Mongo, and Juice Box. A few dromedarians 
remained, rebuilding their town a short distance away. I watched as a pair of 
camels on stilts worked to lift up a new wall. 

“Its not going to matter for them, is it?” Juice Box asked. She was 
currently in the form of a buzz-ard, and it was disconcerting talking to her 
like this. “This world isn’t real. All of that construction is for nothing. In a 
few hours, this will all cease to exist.” 

I didn’t respond. 

“T can’t lose them,” Juice Box added after a moment. “They’re all I 
have left. Remember our deal.” 

“I will do my best,” I said. “I promise.” 

The only quadrant in this whole bubble that still contained mobs was 
the water quadrant. Katia and Tran were down there. She’d announced they 


needed to train as much as they could, and they were going to go shark 
hunting. 

Katia: By my calculations, the gate you just placed will open in five 
hours and four minutes. 

I looked at the clock. The level would collapse in five hours and 27 
minutes, giving us 23 minutes once the gate opened. Gates stayed open on 
their own for twenty minutes unless all three pieces of the gate went 
through them. 

Carl: That’s cutting it pretty close. 

Katia: Hey, it’s your plan, big guy. 

Carl: True enough. Aren’t you going to miss this stuff? 

Katia: Ask me in five and a half hours. 

When we’d looted the letter and papers from Ghazi the mage, it’d 
contained more than just a group of coordinates. At the back was a list of 
scenarios that showed what would happen if different parts of the gate were 
brought through an open portal. The very last scenario showed a method of 
keeping the gate from unleashing a monster into the world. That required us 
to leave one watch on one side, another on the opening side, and the 
winding box inside the gate. It’d basically ruin the artifact, but it would 
make the portal safe. 

But it was the second-to-last scenario that had intrigued me. If the first 
watch was left in the box, and it was taken through the portal, but the 
second watch remained on the opening side, it’d result in a feral god 
appearing on both sides of the portal. 

The plan, as I loudly and happily explained, was straightforward. We’d 
open a portal to the ninth floor, P’d keep the second watch, and we’d send 
Juice Box through with the rest. That would result in a feral god appearing 
on the ninth floor and hopefully trashing the area where it was summoned. 

I remembered when Prince Stalwart had made his stupid little video 
after he’d killed Manasa the singer. He’d been in a castle overlooking a 
field of soldiers. This was right after the ninth floor had opened. Since there 
was only one pre-built castle on the faction wars playing field, we now 
knew in which of the nine locations where their army was located. Thanks 
to the book of coordinates, I knew exactly where to summon the gate. 

Seven of the nine factions had sued to stop this from happening. They 
knew the armies weren’t yet strong enough to hold back an attack from a 
feral god, especially if a second god was summoned to their location. The 


ensuing chaos would be enough to flatten their fortifications and kill their 
armies. 

“You’re just going to kill people like me,” Juice Box had said when I 
explained the plan to her. By this point, Louis had opened her eyes to the 
reality of her existence. She was now fully aware of who she was and of her 
place in this world. She was even more aware than Fire Brandy had been on 
the previous level. “If these people, these game masters are truly immortal 
in this place, then what’s the point? How is this a blow to them?” 

Pd shrugged at the time. “If you were going to die no matter what, 
which would you prefer? Die as a puppet, or die while striking back against 
those who are doing this to you?” 

“T suppose,” she’d said, but she didn’t seem convinced. Eventually, after 
Donut spent some time working on her, she agreed to the plan in exchange 
for a promise. A promise that I would attempt to bring her people with us 
down every floor from now on. I’d told her I’d do my best, but it would be 
difficult. 

“I have seen you do the impossible,” she’d said. “I have faith. Just 
promise me you’|l try, and I will carry your box through the portal.” 

In the distance, a mighty, monkey-like screech filled the lacuna, echoing 
strangely. This was far, far off. It was likely the feral god getting summoned 
over on Imani and Elle’s now-empty world. 

“Carl, Pve decided I don’t like giant monsters,” Donut announced. “PI 
be much happier when we’re done here.” 

A second roar filled the darkness. This was a different sound. A 
different creature. A deeper roar. The sky rumbled and flashed a few times, 
like a distant thunder storm. 

The sky went from sheer darkness to a series of pyrotechnic flashes and 
bursts. Several seconds later, the sound of the clash reached us. The world 
rumbled under our feet. 

“Whatever we summoned on Imani’s world also summoned a god,” I 
said, watching the distant lights. Since the feral god wasn’t protected by a 
bubble, whatever this was should be over soon. 

Zev: Hello, crawlers. 

Donut: HI ZEV! 

Zev: Just so you know, there was yet another last-minute legal 
challenge to what you’re about to attempt. It, again, failed. They almost 
won the injunction, but the Valtay Corporation sent in an attorney to 


assist Borant’s position. They had some interesting legal arguments 
regarding you, Carl. Apparently, since you now own stock in a 
company based in the Skull Empire, the lawsuit needed to be filed in a 
different court. Taxpayers who are not in arrears are afforded different 
protections. It was enough to dismiss that last-minute effort. 

Carl: Borant and the Valtay working together? Wow. 

Zev: It’s no surprise since the sole plaintiff for this one was the 
Skull Empire, and even though we are currently at odds with the 
Valtay, neither entity is a big fan of the orcs. 

I bit my lip, not allowing my sudden anger to bubble over into the chat. 
A lawsuit. A lawsuit because I was threatening their goddamn toy soldiers 
and imaginary fortifications. A goddamn lawsuit. 

The ground rumbled again. Was that a third monster? It sounded like an 
angry bellow. Actual words being shouted. Thankfully it was still far off. 

Zev: Anyway, I’ve been asked to pass on a message from my boss. 

Carl: Okay. Let’s hear it. 

Zev: This is directly from the politburo, who have recently replaced 
the board of directors as principal controllers of the Borant 
Corporation. This is a direct quote. “Crawler Carl and Donut. While 
we approve of what you are planning, we wish to make something clear. 
Game-breaking antics that directly affect sponsors will not be tolerated 
in the future.” That was the whole message. It came from the top. 

I tried to suppress a grin. I copied the message and pasted it into my 
scratchpad just in case they decided to nuke the message string later. A deep 
sense of satisfaction replaced my anger. The goddamn mudskippers 
approved of what we were planning because it meant the other sponsors 
were going to lose a metric fuck ton of money, which would in turn force 
them to spend a ton more to make up for their losses. And since nobody 
could actually die on the ninth floor, it was all in good fun for everybody 
involved. Something everybody would laugh about after it was all over and 
done with. After all, it was just money, right? 

Carl: Tell them I said fuck you very much, and if they don’t want 
the game “broken” maybe they shouldn’t give us the tools to break it. 

Zev: Crawler, you know such language is not acceptable. Best of 
luck to you. 

Donut: BYE, ZEV! 


Almost as soon as the message from Zev ended, we received another 
message. 

Gideon: Hey, uh, Carl and Donut? 

Donut: OMG HI GIDEON! 

Gideon was a crawler who was pretty active in the chats. I’d only met 
him once. He was some sort of human tank class. I couldn’t remember his 
details. We hadn’t needed to save him because his team had popped their 
bubble early. He’d been there during the last fight on the previous floor, and 
I knew the man could handle himself. I couldn’t remember where he was 
from. Donut liked him because he’d once said he was allergic to dogs. 

Carl: Gideon, you shouldn’t be out here. Go down the stairs. 

Gideon: I’m about to go down, but I wanted to warn you. Two god 
things just rolled past my world while beating the shit out of each other. 
One was a giant, hairless gorilla thing, and the other, I think the real 
god, was a snake with the head of a bald guy. Kinda looked like Woody 
Harrelson. You know, the guy from Cheers? 

Donut: HE WAS IN THE ZOMBIE MOVIE I LIKED. THE ONE 
ABOUT TWINKIES. 

Gideon: Yeah, so the Woody Harrelson god killed the monkey god, 
and they both disappeared. But just before he killed him, he threw the 
gorilla against one of the bubbles with a monster inside. I could see the 
bubble pop from here, and the monster got out. I think it might be 
headed in your direction. It’s carrying a very large whip. 

That new, third roar filled the world again. It was definitely shouting 
something, getting closer. 

This was a deep, beefy voice. I couldn’t tell if it was male or female, 
though it reminded me of the Hoarder boss. It sounded absolutely irate. 

“Tt’s a woman,” Donut said after a moment. “She really needs a throat 
lozenge or something. She sounds like she’s been smoking nonstop since 
she was a baby.” 

The feral god cried again, and this time I could understand what she was 
saying. 

“Psamathe,” she screamed. “Samantha! I can smell you! I know you 
escaped! You may be hiding, but I will find you, you worthless little 
whore!” 

“Uh oh,” Donut said. “That doesn’t sound good.” 


I was about to send a message to Katia, telling her to abort everything 
and to get to a stairwell when I received a surprising notification. 

You have received an Emergency Platinum Benefactor Box from 
your sponsor, The Open Intellect Pacifist Action Network, Intergalactic 
NFC. 

“Samantha!” the massive feral god shouted. In the distance, I caught 
sight of a pair of batlike, beating wings. The creature stood atop that distant, 
glowing bubble. It was only in silhouette, but the shape was of a fat 
creature, overflowing with rolls of flesh and with no neck. The thing wasn’t 
nearly as big as the other gods, not even close, but it was still huge. It 
carried a sparkling whip that crackled with lightning. “Samantha,” it 
howled as it approached. 

Not a god. A demon. A feral demon. It would be here in minutes. 

“If it gets too close, go down the stairs, Donut,” I yelled, and I sprinted 
back toward Hump Town. I needed to open the goddamn loot box. 


Mordecai: A platinum emergency box? Are you shitting me? Do you 
know how much that had to cost? That had to be more than the GDP of 
some star systems. That had to be the most expensive box in the game’s 
history! 

Carl: Yeah, my first instinct was to abort everything and run down 
the stairs, but I figured we might as well look at it. Whoever these guys 
are, they must want this plan to go smoothly. 

I actually felt bad, especially if these pacifist assholes were truly trying 
to help. If they were counting on my plan going exactly as I said it’d go, 
they were about to be disappointed. 

Mordecai: You should forget this nonsense and run down the stairs 
anyway. 

Carl: What does Samantha say? 

Mordecai: You can ask her directly now that she’s hired. You’ll 
have to approve the chat in the menu. 

I clicked through, and sure enough, there was an option to add staff 
members. I clicked it as I rushed through the doors of the closest intact pub. 


This was a saferoom in what had once been Weird Shit Alley. The whole 
town was unrecognizable. 

I could see that Donut had already approved her to chat and changed her 
name from Psamathe to Samantha. Knowing Donut, she’d probably already 
gotten the minor god-turned-sex doll’s life story out of her. 

Carl: Samantha, who is that fat demon with wings and a whip? 

I jumped into my menu and clicked on boxes. 

Samantha: A WHIP? DOES SHE LOOK LIKE AN 
UNCIRCUMCISED GNOME PENIS? 

Carl: Yes. Maybe. I don’t know. She doesn’t have a neck. 

Samantha: I HAVE NO IDEA WHICH ONE SHE IS. YOU JUST 
BRING ME OUTSIDE, AND I WILL TAKE CARE OF IT. I WILL 
KILL HER AND HER MOTHER. BITCH CAN’T HANDLE ME. 

Carl: Jesus, did Donut show you the caps lock key? 

Samantha: LET ME FIGHT HER! I CAN TAKE THE FAT BITCH 
DOWN! 

The platinum sponsor box opened with a ridiculous amount of fanfare. 
A group of cogs and wheels turned, spitting confetti all over the place. The 
dromedarians all turned to watch. This better not be another goddamn 
vegetable. 

A single object popped out. It was a curved piece of wicker basket, 
though it glowed with enchantment. I just stared at it. I extended my xistera, 
and sure enough, the device slid easily onto the scoop. I wouldn’t be able to 
retract it like this, but the item’s purpose was clear. 

Carl: You really want to fight her? 

Samantha: PLL KILL HER. 

Carl: You’re about to get your chance. 

I rushed to the door of the personal space. The main room was trashed 
thanks to all the kids, but finally empty except for Mordecai, who sat on the 
couch watching some goddamn television show. The cleaner bot beeped 
mournfully at me as I rushed past and burst into the training room. I 
grabbed Samantha, and I bolted for the door. 

“Don’t take her outside,” Mordecai yelled at me, alarmed. “You’ll 
summon another god if she goes outside!” 

I ignored him as I rushed through the door, holding onto the cackling 
sex doll by the hair. 


“Carl, why’d you bring her out here?” Donut cried. “And what is that on 
your arm?” 

“Tt’s on! It’s time for me to bring the pain!” Samantha squealed. “Where 
are you at, you rank whore!” 

“I smell you! You’re here!” the massive demon squealed, the voice 
distressingly close. 

I looked about, trying to see where the giant monster had gone. “Where 
the hell is the monster?” 

A high-pitched, crackling noise filled the air, like the sound of incoming 
artillery. 

“Watch out!” I cried, preparing to hit my shield. I paused, seeing the 
attack would miss. 

The whip was actually a chain, similar to what Li Na used. Each 
individual link was the size of a semi-truck. The chain glowed with 
electricity. It came from below, arcing up into the air, unfurling like a snake. 
It crashed down heavily into the bowl, a half a mile away. The chain 
slammed across the desert, cleaving through the rock as if it was butter and 
cutting deep into the temple below. An edge of the already-collapsed bowl 
started to slide away. The ground rumbled. Juice Box transformed into a 
turtle. She jumped atop the winding box, keeping it safe and in place. 

That wouldn’t matter if the whole temple collapsed. I eyed the stairwell, 
just a few feet away. 

“You missed, you crazy bitch!” Samantha shrieked. “It’s not my fault 
your man likes me more than you! He told me you smell like the asshole of 
a Felch demon! He says he’d rather fornicate with a razor elemental than 
stick it in you ever again!” 

Katia: What the hell is going on up there? 

Donut: GIRL FIGHT! GIRL FIGHT! 

Carl: Stay put. Don’t move! 

The massive head rose over the horizon, glaring directly at us. The 
monstrosity glowed with purple light. On either side of the head, the tops of 
black, leathery wings rose. 

I had no idea what an uncircumcised gnome penis looked like, but at 
that moment, I was quite certain Samantha’s description had been accurate. 
The head was a pink, fleshy dome, yet somehow also covered in scales, like 


the thing was a lizard/mammal hybrid. Scattered, black hairs criss-crossed 
the thing’s head. Twin, reptilian eyes stared at us. I knew a guy who once 
had a pet bearded dragon, and the eyes reminded me of that thing. A jagged, 
teeth-filled mouth spread across the demon, and a red tongue flitted out. 
The stench of unfiltered cigarettes filled the world, almost choking. 

The monster was slathered in so much mascara, eyeshadow, and 
lipstick, it made Samantha’s makeup seem subtle. Bruise-colored 
eyeshadow rose from each eye, reaching to the patchy hairline. Lipstick, 
thick like knee-deep spackle surrounded her giant mouth. The stuff fell off 
in massive clumps as she grimaced. Each cheek was painted equally red, 
swirls like the storm on Jupiter. 

The damn head was the size of a sports arena, which was ridiculously 
huge, but small compared even to Emberus. That didn’t seem so important 
right now. 

Slit. Feral Minor Demon. Level 200. 

One of the many demons captured and tossed into the Nothing 
during the original Ascendency, Slit never wanted to be caught up in all 
that royal drama, but what can you do? When you’re in love, you’d do 
just about anything for your man. 

Eons in the madness have taken a terrible toll on Slit’s sanity and 
sense of self-worth. 

“Samantha,” Slit croaked. “You are so dead.” 

“Oh, this bitch. I know which one this is. Quick, give me a weapon,” 
Samantha said. 

“A weapon? You can’t move,” I said. I shoved her face-first into the 
round slot. She fit perfectly. 

The way the accessory was described left no doubt as to what they 
wanted me to do. I just hoped it would actually work. 

Enchanted Xistera Extension Slot. Head-throwing attachment. 

This is a unique item! 

This item was created especially for Crawler Carl by The Open 
Intellect Pacifist Action Network, Intergalactic NFC. 

Attaches to the end of a xistera. Allows for the tossing of a head. 

This special edition head tosser is custom made to fit decapitated 
love doll heads. 

When tossing a head of a withering spirit, the distance traveled will 
be greatly enhanced. (500 meters x Strength.) 


Tossed head will be magically returned once the extension slot is 
removed from xistera. 

“You have daggers in your inventory! Stick one in my mouth! I need to 
cut the bitch!” 

Slit the demon reared back, ready to slam her chain whip down once 
again. 

“No time, sorry,” I said. I turned 90 degrees, and I chucked Samantha 
with all of my might. She rocketed away, screaming that she was going to 
kill my mother. 

Slit screeched in rage and turned to follow. 

My unenhanced strength was 75. With all of my gear and buffs, it was 
well over 100. I’d just tossed her over 50 kilometers away. The fat demon 
took a few moments to gather steam, but her wings flapped, and soon she 
was booking it out into the lacuna. 

“That was mighty convenient that they had that box ready to go,” Donut 
said, watching the giant demon chase after the head. The strange demon 
was wearing some leather-like S&M outfit, something one of those tuskling 
dominatrixes would wear, but somehow more trashy. It was covered in 
dangly, sequoia-sized tassels. Her large body sloshed like gelatin as her 
wings worked overtime to keep her frame aloft. She chased the head off 
into the darkness, howling. The cigarette stench remained, overpowering 
the smell of the burning turkey. 

“No,” I said. “They had it ready to go for another purpose, probably on 
the next floor,” I said. “They’d been forced to send it now.” 

“What do you mean?” Donut asked. 

“Watch,” I said. 

As Slit chased after the head, the sky cracked open. Something else 
appeared. This was yet another god, someone I hadn’t seen before. It was 
too distant to properly examine. I couldn’t quite make its features, but this 
was one of the physically huge ones. It had multiple arms. 

I was expecting it to go after Samantha. It did not. It turned and plucked 
Slit up, holding the fat, squirming demon like someone would pick up a 
small rodent. And just like that, it ripped the feral demon in two. Even at 
this distance, I could hear the sound of tearing flesh. Slit shrieked as gore 
showered everywhere. Her chain whip dropped away, crashing heavily. A 
moment passed, and then both the god and the corpse disappeared. 


“What was that?” Donut asked. “Carl, why are you summoning all these 
giant monsters?” 

“Samantha was always going to summon a deity once we took her 
outside. This extension thing was supposed to be a prize similar to a 
celestial grenade. They’d likely had it made to give to us on the next floor. I 
guess they figured protecting us now was more important.” 

I looked up into the air. “Thanks for saving us,” I said. “I don’t know 
how much it cost, but I hope it was worth it.” I pulled the xistera extension 
off, and I pulled it into my inventory. 

Carl: You good? 

Katia: It was very sloshy for a minute, but we’re calming down. 
Everything is good. It got those concierge sharks all riled up. 

Carl: Pm only expecting one more attack before we’re done. That 
one shouldn’t be as seismic. 

Samantha popped into existence at my feet, screaming. “Not fair! Not 
fair! You tell my mother to get back here! That was my kill!” We just stared 
down at her as she continued to moan and growl. “Throw me again. Maybe 
that’ll bring her back!” 

“That god thing was your mother?” Donut finally asked. 

“Pm going to kill her,” Samantha said. 

“Wait,” I said. “Wasn’t your dad the one who sent you into the 
Nothing?” 

“Yeah. He was mad at me for having a baby with my king. But my mom 
was banging him too, so she got mad. Jealous bitch. She said she was going 
to kill me if I ever got out, but she killed that Slit bitch instead. She never 
keeps her promises. Parents not keeping their promises is the number one 
cause of childhood trauma, you know.” 

I looked at Donut. “Do you think that god was sponsored? I wished we 
could have seen her.” Was it possible the “pacifist” group had also paid to 
sponsor a deity? I picked Samantha back up. I needed to get her back into 
the personal space. Our access would close when there was only an hour 
left. 

“Why was that demon mad at you?” Donut asked. 

“She thought I had sex with her king.” 

“Did you?” Donut asked. 

“Ew,” Samantha said. “Gross.” 

“Then why did she think that?” 


“Oh, she’s part of some demon harem thing. I was talking about my 
sexual exploits with my king, and she thought I was talking about her king. 
She got all belligerent. I don’t like confrontation, as you well know, but she 
made me mad. So I told her that her king and I had all sorts of weird sex. 
You wouldn’t believe how mad that made her and all of her sisters.” 

“How many sisters does she have?” I asked, suddenly concerned. 

“The Nothing is filled with the harem. They all hate me.” She laughed. 
“Anytime one of them gets out, that’ll probably happen, so get used to it. 
Slit was only one of the little ones. Her sister Gash is the one you really 
need to look out for.” 

Juice Box stood, back in human form. In the distance, more of the bowl 
caved in where it had been cleaved in two. For the first time since Pd met 
the changeling, she looked frazzled. 

“Pm starting to regret agreeing to help you,” she said. 


Time to level collapse: 1 hour. 


Warning: All access to Safe Rooms is now closed. 


We’d been waiting for a few hours now, just sitting there while Juice Box 
changed form to entertain us. After the appearance of the demon, the 
following hours of silence were jarring. 

Juice Box was actually being super helpful, showing us forms of 
monsters I’d never heard of and then showing me the best way to kill them. 
Some of these monsters were listed in the cookbook, but for many of them, 
the weaknesses weren’t noted. I was taking notes of everything. 

Each time she changed, Juice Box reverted to her buzz-ard form before 
forming into something else. The creature had a special hunting ability that 
could find creatures hidden in the sand. 

Eventually, I got sick of waiting. We were running out of time. 

“T know you’re there, Maggie. I don’t know what you’re waiting for. If 
you want to talk, come on out.” 


A full minute of silence followed. But then the voice came. “They told 
me about the potion,” Chris—Maggie—called from their hiding place. A 
chill washed over me. 

It sounded as if they were directly below me, which startled me. It was 
muffled, but still super close, almost like the voice was whispering in my 
ear. 

It was why nobody had been able to find them. Rock creatures all came 
with camouflage abilities. It turned out Chris had the ability to burrow into 
sand dunes and disappear. 

“Yeah,” I said. I slowly moved away. Next to me, Mongo squawked. 
Juice Box took flight, pointing downward. They were actually several feet 
away from where the voice was coming from. Another ability? Donut 
moved to jump atop the dinosaur. 

I continued, talking loudly. “I got this weird yam thing in a sponsor box, 
and at first, our manager guy couldn’t figure it out. I don’t know if you saw 
what happened earlier, but that Samantha doll head that was out here? She 
helped him figure it out. It actually has multiple uses. The yam thing grows 
in lava or magma or something. I honestly don’t remember what the 
difference is between the two. But anyway, the yam can either be used for a 
type of special ink for scrolls, or it can be used for a few different lava- 
themed potions. It can be a special type of healing scroll for lava rock 
monsters like Chris, or it can be used as a phase potion for people to be able 
to easily pass through lava rock. And that’s what Mordecai made for us. A 
Phase Lava Rock potion. Once I take it, you won’t be able to touch me. 
Chris’s arms will go right through me.” 

Juice Box indicated they were moving. They’d been slowly, slowly 
creeping through the sand in full camouflage mode. Juice Box had sensed 
their presence an hour ago, and she’d quietly pointed it out to us. I wouldn’t 
be able to do anything until they revealed themselves. 

My pulse quickened. We didn’t have Katia here with her special bolt. 
This was it. 

“They have my other daughter, Carl. They’re going to bring her back. 
They’re going to turn her into a monster and make someone kill her if I 
don’t do this. I can’t let it happen.” 

“They’re doing this to all of us,” I said, slowly sliding along the sand. 
“We all lost someone, Maggie. We could’ve worked together. You got 


misled. I regret what happened with Yvette. But you’re focusing your anger 
on the wrong people.” 

“You don’t understand,” she replied after a moment. “I’m not angry 
anymore.” They had to move very slowly to keep from being detected. She 
could throw her voice, and she made it seem like she was stalking me, but I 
wasn’t the target. The winding box was. They’re going to try to move it, or 
drop it down into the temple below. They only needed to move it five feet. 

“Chris is a good guy,” I said, slowly moving away from the sand dune. 
The Phase Lava Rock potion only lasted a minute, so I didn’t want to take it 
too soon. “He didn’t do anything to you, and you’re torturing him.” 

“You should just go down the stairs,” Maggie said. “I’m sorry it has 
come to this. I was so angry, so blinded by what you’d done. I wasn’t a bad 
person before this. I swear I wasn’t. But I have to protect my family, no 
matter what. I thought it was done when I killed Frank, but I was wrong. 
When the caprid came to us in the rest area, it told me it’d help if we killed 
you.” 

Caprid? Prepotente? That didn’t make sense. She had to be talking 
about another creature. 

Maggie suddenly shouted. “Fuck your warnings. If it’s legal to happen, 
then it’s legal to say out loud. Fuck all of you. What’re you going to do, 
accelerate me? Now?” 

I realized she was talking to the AI. Or someone else. 

“He’s a cleric. A goat thing. A liaison. He said I have to stop you, or...” 
She stopped talking. 

Carl: I think she’s lost her ability to speak. 

Donut: SHE’S STILL THERE. SHE’S GOING TO TAKE THE 
BOX. 

Carl: Katia, how much time is left? 

Katia: Ten minutes, give or take. 

Carl: It’s close enough. 

“Maggie,” I called. I edged closer to the box, positioning myself just 
behind them. “I hope you can hear me. I’m sorry it’s come to this. That 
doesn’t mean we can forget what happened, but I’m sorry how everything 
played out. You got dealt a shitty hand, and that really sucks. I’ll let you...” 

Chris erupted out of the ground next to the winding box. I slammed 
onto the phase potion. I rushed toward the lava rock creature as he picked 
up the box out of the ground, and he hurled it as hard as he could. It sailed 


through the air in the same direction I’d tossed the Samantha head. The 
door atop the box ripped open, and the two watches went flying in different 
directions. 

The phase potion made it so I could move through both lava and lava 
rock. I reached forward, fingers open, right into Chris’s head. I grasped 
until I felt it there, lodged in his brain. The worm was the size of my palm, 
the only part of his body that was solid, and it felt like an uneven, squirming 
sausage. I thought of that god crushing Slit the demon. 

I pulled. I was expecting it to explode in my hand. I was phased, but it 
wasn’t. But it didn’t die. Instead, it bit my palm and started to burrow even 
as I retracted my hand. 

“Gah,” I cried, pulling my hand to my chest. Chris collapsed in front of 
me. I reached to grab the tail end of the long, black worm with my left 
hand, but I missed, and it burrowed inside. I felt her there, in my arm, 
moving through my body, like a sub diving below the waterline. She 
disappeared. 

“Shit, shit,” I cried. I scrambled into my inventory. There. I waited the 
two more seconds on my potion countdown, and I slammed on the double- 
healing potion. The same one Pd used to cure my parasitic infection on the 
third floor. Mordecai had said this would work, but only if I drank it before 
she got to my brain. And she’d get there fast. 

The last time I’d taken the potion, I’d vomited out the parasites. This 
time, she came right out of my goddamn neck, bursting forth like I’d been 
shot by a sniper. Blood showered as she rocketed out of me. It felt as if I’d 
been hit with a hammer. She thrashed, her health in the red with Poisoned 
pulsing over her. Blood spewed from the hole in my neck. I moved to stomp 
her down, but before I could get her, Mongo jumped forward and grabbed 
her. 

“Chew,” I croaked as I clenched my hand against the massive neck 
wound. I tried to click Heal. You’ve been rendered Woozy! You ain’t 
clicking shit right now! Nighty-Night. 

Before I passed out, I watched Mongo gleefully crunch down on the 
form of the Scree worm, ripping the tiny crawler into mulch and thus 
ending the saga of Frank Q and Maggie My. 


I was only unconscious for about two minutes. Donut healed me using a 
scroll. I awakened to find her sitting over me worriedly. Chris sat nearby, 
hand on his rocky head. He, too, had been healed by Donut. 

“That hurt,” he said. 

“Ditto,” I groaned. 

Carl: Hey Imani. He’s safe. It worked. We’ll get him to you on the 
next floor. 

Mongo vomited the corpse of Maggie and then ate it again. 

“Wait,” I gasped. “We need to loot her inventory.” 

“T got it all the first time he barfed her up. She had a lot of stuff,” Donut 
said. 

“Give it to Chris,” I said, falling onto my back. 

“What do you mean? She has a lot of hats in here. Why does a worm 
need hats? What does Chris need with a bunch of hats? I collect hats. I feel 
strongly I should be able to keep them.” 

Carl: Time? 

Katia: Two minutes. Are you okay? 

Shit, shit. Showtime. 

Carl: Maggie is dead. Chris is safe. Make sure you’re anchored. 
How about Tran? Is he safe? 

Katia: He’s already away. He and Gwen’s team have gone down the 
stairs. 

Juice Box was back in human form and holding one of the watches that 
Chris had tossed. 

“What is this?” she asked, turning it over. “This isn’t my brother’s 
watch.” 

It was a facsimile, one of the ones I’d made long ago to trick the 
dirigible gnomes. Katia had actually made the facsimile winding box. She’d 
made it while pretending to learn how to use the engineering table. She was 
much better at fabricating shapes than I was. She’d made the box in pieces 
and had assembled it all within her own inventory. We’d exchanged the 
pieces, facsimile and real when we’d hugged at the Desperado Club. 

“Plan is changed,” I said to Juice Box, talking rapidly. I grabbed her by 
her shoulders. My head still swam, and my neck ached. “You need to go. 
Now. The gate will be open in a few moments, but itll only be open for 
twenty minutes. Don’t worry about bringing anything with you. We’re not 
sending a god to the ninth floor. Not this time. We’re actually keeping the 


gate. This isn’t going to be a one-time thing, not by a long shot. But I still 
want you to go to Larracos. You need to stay hidden, but you need to tell 
the others what you know. Do you understand? We’re not done with you 
yet. By the time we get there, I want all the survivors to know what they 
really are. Do you understand?” 

The changeling prostitute couldn’t find the words. “What?... Where’s 
the gate?” 

“You can emulate a shark, right?” I asked. “Turn into a bird, and fly. Fly 
as fast as you can, over the lip and then down into the water. The location 
will be pretty obvious in a few minutes. It’s on this side. Hurry.” 

She kissed me on the cheek. “Watch over my people. We have a deal. 
And keep him safe, too. I love him.” 

“Who?” I asked. 

“Louis,” she said. “We’re going to be married.” 

A few days back I had been chased by a massive, two-headed puppy. I’d 
crashed an airplane into the face of a god. I watched a talking goat snuggle 
up with a vampire after they killed the universe’s largest turkey. I’d just 
chucked a haunted sex doll head fifty kilometers in order to settle a girl 
fight between that same head and a makeup-encrusted demon the size of a 
small town. I’d just reached into the head of a rock monster in order to 
pluck a parasitic worm from his head. 

And yet, despite all of this, what Juice Box had just said was the most 
astounding thing I’d heard since this floor started. I looked at her like she 
had slugs crawling from her nostrils. “Louis?” I asked. “Our Louis? You’re 
in love with Louis? You’re getting married? Are you serious?” 

The scowl she gave told me she was deadly serious. 

“Remember your promise!” she said, not waiting for me to respond. She 
leaped to the air, and she formed into a skyfowl. She rocketed away. In 
seconds, she was gone. I rubbed my eyes, and I took a deep breath. 

“Louis?” Donut said. “Carl, the whole world has gone insane.” 

A groan turned our attention back to Chris, who was just sitting there in 
a daze. 

“Brandon,” Chris finally said, lowering his head. “Brandon.” 

That sobered me up. I kneeled down before the man, and I placed my 
hand on his leg, which was burning hot. “Your brother died saving the lives 
of a lot of people. We’ll do this next part in his honor, okay?” 


Time to level collapse: 21 minutes. 


Katia: The gate is open. Those timed charges you made got sucked in. I 
dropped the chum bomb nearby just before, and it worked really well. 
The sharks are also slurping right in, and they’re already in their 
feeding frenzy. Hopefully the bombs went off before the sharks got 
there. I guess it doesn’t really matter. Some of those pain amplifier 
jellies are getting pulled in, too. 

Carl: Okay. Good job. Get to the stairs. Tell me when you’re out 
and away. Hurry. 

It was going to be tough for her to move through the water with the pull 
of the current draining into the lowest level of the city of Larracos, but 
she’d anchored herself to the rocky wall of the temple. She was going to use 
the subterranean stairwell to exit, as there was an entrance right there near 
the shelf where the Akula had been parked. This was the most dangerous 
part for her, and I was worried, but she insisted she’d be able to do it no 
problem. 

For the next twenty minutes, the inverted cone of the city of Larracos 
would be filled with a rush of water. The gate opened right inside the 
faction market. There was probably a drainage system, but it would be 
temporarily overwhelmed. The bombs would explode moments after they 
arrived, leveling the market and scattering the shoppers and shopkeepers. 
And then the sharks would come. If Katia’s math was correct, and the map 
she’d made was accurate, more than half of the city would be submerged by 
the time the gate closed. The only parts that would be spared were the upper 
levels, the NPC residences. 

The onslaught of water and bombs and sharks and other mobs would be 
sudden, violent, destructive, and nowhere near where they thought it would 
be. 

Zev: Oh my god, Carl. They are enraged. This is not what you 
promised. 


Zev had dropped any semblance of her good little citizen of the Party 
persona. 

Carl: I promised nothing. 

Zev: If you fill Larracos with water and mobs, it’s going to kill all 
the NPCs. The markets will be flooded. The mercenaries will be killed. 
If you kill the NPCs at the entrance bar, access to the Desperado Club 
will be cut off. The sponsors won’t have entry to the Club to gamble. 
They won’t be able to get to the markets where they can buy the 
magical gear. Borant depends on that money. The sponsors need that 
market to outfit their troops. 

Carl: Oh, I’m sure they’ll patch it. That water’ll drain right out. It 
might take a few days since there’s some sharks mixed in there, but it’ll 
be fine. 

Zev: No, Carl. You know this. We can’t add new worker NPCs once 
a level is created. Mobs, yes, but NPCs? That’s written into the rules. 
We can’t just replace the shopkeepers. The food market for the troops 
was down there, too. 

I did, indeed, know all of this. That was the point. 

Carl: Whoops. My bad. 

Zev: If they want to fix this, they’ll have to get the Syndicate to vote 
on it. And they won’t have the votes. And even if they did, they’ll have 
to get the AI on board, and that’s not going to happen. The whole 
system is already spiraling, and it’s the earliest this has ever happened. 

Pd killed people today, innocent people. A lot of innocent people. 

But they were all NPCs, and none of them were former crawlers, and 
that’s what mattered to me. Former crawlers with contracts like Mordecai 
were valuable. They didn’t waste them in a city that was razed every 
season. Still, there was no sugarcoating what I’d done. 

We didn’t have time for moral debates. I was doing them a favor. And 
while the emotional abuse of NPCs such as little Bonnie had been enough 
to nearly break my sense of resolve, the knowledge that I’d just saved those 
NPCs the horror of having to endure a bloody conflict that would end in 
their inevitable deaths anyway was enough to ease any concern at what I’d 
done. 

Priestly had fallen into that trap, caring so much that it had paralyzed 
him into inaction. It had finally broken him. I wasn’t going to make the 
same mistake. 


A distant part of me was alarmed at this attitude. But this was war, and 
there was no use pretending like it wasn’t. 

Zev continued to breathlessly rant. It was finally dawning on me that 
her astonishment and outrage was actually an act, and what she really was 
doing was relaying crucial information to us. She was practically giddy and 
was barely containing it. She and Donut were talking somehow. Likely via 
the social media board, but I didn’t dare ask, not even using the magical 
paper we had hanging in the bathroom. 

Borant’s outrage at what had really happened was testament to the idea 
that they hadn’t caught on to our method of communication. I’d been half 
certain that they’d known what Donut, Katia, and I had been meticulously 
planning for days. Even Mordecai didn’t know all the details. 

Zev: Half of them had their armies hidden in the city, so they 
wouldn’t get hurt by the god. I’m sure plenty will get out, but you don’t 
know what you’ve done. You’ve killed thousands. Tens of thousands. 
Who knows what the playing field is going to look like when it settles. 

Carl: I’m sure it’ll be wonderful for the ratings. 

Zev: There’ll be consequences. 

Carl: Probably. But tell them they approved this. We didn’t cheat. 
We used the tools they gave us. Also, say they’re gonna want to wait to 
see what happens next before they decide to, you know, accelerate me 
or throw me into the disposal unit or whatever. I know they’re in real 
danger of losing control of the season. Whomever ends up in control of 
the next floor is going to make a lot of money. 

Zev: What do you mean? 

Carl: Just watch. 

I closed out the message. 

Katia: I’m out. Going down the stairs now. 

Donut: BYE KATIA! 

Carl: Okay. I’m adding Chris to the party so he travels with us. See 
you on the other side. Good job today. 

Katia: Good luck with class selection. 

“I’m sad we’re not going on Odette’s show this time,” Donut said as we 
walked to the stairwell. Chris walked ahead of us, head down. Mordecai 
was ranting and raving at me over the chat, but I tuned him out. 

“Don’t worry,” I said. “If I know Odette, she’ll probably have us on in a 
day or two.” 


“Do you think Juice Box made it?” Donut asked. “It didn’t let me add 
her to my chat like it does with Sledgie and Mordecai.” 

“She made it,” I said. “She’s had a hard life, and she’s a tough lady. 
Plus, she’s in love. That gives people strength.” 

Mordecai: And I don’t care how much that ring is valued at. Time 
is up. I want you to toss it before you go down the stairs. 

Carl: Mordecai, you really need to chill, you know that? 

Mordecai: Carl. Son. You don’t know the forces you’re dealing 
with. You can’t tempt fate like this. You only made it this far because 
you’re making them a lot of money. But you just kicked them in the 
financial balls. Do you think that’s going to stand? 

Carl: Hey, I got my sponsor to purchase that box, didn’t I? I think 
they got a deity sponsorship, too. That has to be worth something. 

Mordecai: You can’t fight a war like this and expect to win. 

Donut: DON’T BE MEAN TO CARL, MORDECAI. HE DIDN’T 
DO IT ALONE. WE’RE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER. 

Donut didn’t know how correct she was. I wasn’t nearly as alone as I 
once thought I was. I pulled the xistera extension from my inventory, and I 
examined it again. I ran my finger over the wicker-like substance, rubbing 
the tiny inscription on the side. 

Made for Crawler Carl by the Open Intellect Pacifist Action Network, 
Intergalactic NFC with design approval by CEO and president of Outreach 
Operations, Dr. P. Hu. 

I put the head-tosser away, and I pulled the Ring of Divine Suffering out 
of my inventory. I held it up to the meager light. It was one of the most 
sought-after items by the treasure hunters. 

“Are they still going to hunt us if they can’t sell on the market?” Donut 
asked. 

“Pm sure,” I said. “They’re going to want everything we have. Not just 
the ring, but the gate, too. Can you imagine how powerful that’ll be on the 
battlefield? There’s two different marketplaces. There’s the Desperado Club 
market where the hunters sell their wares, and there’s the online one where 
the crawlers sell using the kiosk. The kiosk ones are trashed. Crawlers use 
the interface, but the faction wars guys have to actually go down to a 
merchant and buy it. We just killed all those merchants. So no more buying 
from crawlers.” 


“But Zev said they can’t get into the Desperado Club anymore, so they 
can’t buy from the bounty hunters, either.” 

“Maybe, maybe not,” I said. “It’Il probably be closed for a while. But 
what I’m guessing is going to happen is that each of the factions are quickly 
deciding whether or not to send someone down to the sixth floor to collect 
stuff manually and buy stuff from the other hunters while they’re there. We 
didn’t wipe out all the armies, but we wiped out most of their ability to get 
more gear, and we upset the power structure. They’re scrambling now, 
wondering how they’re going to outfit their soldiers. There’s only one 
feasible way. Either they don’t outfit them, or they risk sending their own 
people down to the sixth floor. I could be wrong, but I suspect it’s going to 
be crowded down there.” 

We paused at the entrance to the stairwell. Chris entered and didn’t look 
back. Poor guy. There were five minutes left. I looked about one last time. 
A few hundred meters away, Dromedarians continued to fix their city. I 
sighed. 

“So we’re just going to have more hunters down there,” Donut said. 

“Donut, have you ever heard the term, ‘seeding the pond?’” 

Donut wasn’t impressed. “The kill, kill, kill lady said the hunters can 
also collect bounties, and you’re worth a lot now. Everyone is going to be 
coming after us.” 

“That’s exactly what I’m hoping for.” 

“I don’t like people hunting us, Carl.” 

After the last recap episode, Lucia Mar had finally fallen off the number 
one spot. The top ten list hadn’t changed too much, but there were a few 
notable differences: 

1. Carl — Primal — Compensated Anarchist — Level 47 — 1,000,000 
(x2) 

2. Lucia Mar — Lajabless — Black Inquisitor General — Level 48 — 
500,000 (x2) 

3. Prepotente — Caprid — Forsaken Aerialist — Level 55 — 400,000 
(x2) 

4. Donut — Cat — Former Child Actor — Level 39 — 300,000 (x2) 

5. Dmitri and Maxim Popov — Nodling — Illusionist and Bogatyr — 
Level 43 — 200,000 (x2) 

6. Miriam Dom — Vampire — Shepherd — Level 52 — 100,000 (x2) 


7. Elle McGib — Frost Maiden — Blizzardmancer — Level 47 — 
100,000 

8. Bogdon Ro — Human — Legatus — Level 44 — 100,000 

9. Eva Sigrid — Half Nagini, Half-Orc — Level 40 — Nimblefoot 
Enforcer — 100,000 

10. Quan Ch — Half Elf — Imperial Security Trooper — Level 48 — 
100,000 (x2) 

I was now the number one crawler in the dungeon. 

I patted Donut on the head. “Once the sixth floor opens, we’ll all be 
locked in together. They’! be just as trapped as we are.” I tossed the ring in 
the air, and I caught it. I looked up into the sky, ending all pretense that I 
was actually saying this to just Donut. 

“You guys see this thing? Pl tell you what. If you want it, it’s yours. It’s 
right here. Come and get it, motherfuckers. Actually, you know what? I 
have a better idea. No need to come to me because Pll be coming to you. 
That’s my pledge to you and to everyone else watching this. By the time the 
sixth floor collapses, every single hunter who dares to set foot on the same 
floor as us will be dead." Donut, Mongo, and I moved into the stairwell. 
"This I swear on my life. One by one, I will break you. I will break you all.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


EPILOGUE 


“HOw MUCH MONEY, EXACTLY, HAVE WE SPENT SO FAR?” THE WOMAN 
asked. “The man is insane. Did you hear that? He’s absolutely insane.” 

“Tt’s best if you don’t know,” Dr. Hu replied. 

“Tt’s best if people don’t question how a small NFC can afford this. It’s 
best if they don’t ask why.” 

“We’re well past that,” Dr. Hu said. “We’re going all in on him.” 

“He’s unstable. He’s going to die at any moment. And even if he 
doesn’t, the AI is going primal and is liable to kill the entire planet before 
they even hit the ninth floor. The Valtay are sticking their nose into 
everything, and the Kua-Tin underground are going to start a bloody civil 
war any day now. King Rust’s children are all trying to murder each other, 
and Princess D’ Nadia is probably going to do something stupid, too. Plus 
this human is not nearly as clever as you think he is. You should have 
included instructions with the yam. They wasted half of it on saving that 
other crawler.” 

“He knows what it’s really for.” 

“Does he? I’m not so sure.” 

“My dear, he’s already shaken everything up. Even if he fails, it’s 
already a success. Every time he goes on that Odette woman’s show, more 
people sign up for the cause.” 

“They sign up for his cause. Not ours.” 

“Tt’s the same cause.” 

“He’s going to die, Porthus. He’s never going to make it past the sixth 
floor.” 

“That’s what you said about the fifth floor,” Dr. Hu said. 


“We all want happy endings,” Sadir said to the creature in the cage. It 
looked back at him sullenly. He knew the animal couldn’t understand him. 
“But sometimes, my little friend, we don’t get what we want. Sometimes 
our mutual desires are incompatible with one another. For example, I wish 
to be warm and dry right now. You want freedom. I fear neither of us are 
getting what we want this evening.” 

Freezing rain pelted down on them. It was just past ab-solar, what the 
locals called “midnight.” Heavy clouds covered the sky, making it 
especially dark out here. He couldn’t even see the lights of the thousands of 
ships and probes in low atmosphere. For a moment, it felt like the three of 
them were the only living things on this world. Him, his partner, and their 
quarry. 

He stuck a long, gray finger into the cage. The fuzzy monster hissed and 
scratched at him, lightning quick. The tiny, sharp claws caught on his flesh, 
tearing at his skin before he could pull away. 

“Fuck. By his left tit, that hurt!” 

The beast—a “cat”—issued a low, deep growl. Its ears were pinned to 
the back of its head. 

Sadir pulled his finger to his mouth and sucked at it while Gennrik 
chuckled. Gooey, blue-tinged blood oozed out of the wound and into his 
mouth. He pulled up his self-diagnostics to see if he needed an antibiotic, 
and then he cursed again after he remembered his implants were offline. 
The planet was off-limits to non-natives, and they had to shut their systems 
down to avoid detection. 

“It’s not him,” Gennrik said after a moment. The tentacle-faced 
saccathian put the hand computer down and stowed it on his belt. 

Sadir growled with frustration. This was the sixth cat they’d found in 
the area. He cursed the Syndicate rule that all non-crawler survivors have 
their implants scrambled. This would be so much easier if that weren’t the 
case. But then again, he thought. They wouldnt need us if it were that 
simple. This is what we do. 

Sadir pulled the hotsheet from his belt and looked at it and back to the 
cat. 

“Are you certain?” he asked. “It looks like him.” 


“Yes. The markings are similar, but not exact. This one contains a 
human microchip, and the database pegs its owner as a man who was in the 
initial collection. Plus, this is a female. Her name is Contessa Purrington. 
Let her go.” 

“Pm going to shoot her,” Sadir said. “She attacked me. She drew 
blood.” 

Contessa Purrington hissed louder and batted furiously at the electric 
walls of the bounty cube. Sadir took a step back. 

“You are not. She scratched you because you stuck your hand where it 
shouldn’t be.” 

Gennrik reached up and pressed a finger against the top of the cube. The 
device disappeared, turning into a metal square. The cat bolted, vanishing 
into the darkness. 

Sadir pulled his bio-scan unit and wiped the rain off the screen. He 
grumbled, once again cursing the Syndicate’s stupid rules. He pulled the 
camo netting over his head and turned the scanner on, making sure to keep 
the device close to the ground so its presence was even further shielded 
from the scanners. He already had two strikes against him. If he was caught 
trespassing again, his warrant would be lowered to three figures. He’d be 
snatched right up for sure this time, especially with war brewing. Multiple 
wars brewing. 

As a Null, he already had a hard enough time making a living. Whole 
systems refused entry to his kind, despite the practice being illegal. The 
Syndicate didn’t care. They turned their backs on the rights of the non- 
council member races. Especially the null. They only cared about 
corporations, the rich and royal families, and the gilded homeworlds of the 
free citizens. 

So when the season’s Walk-On List was released, he marched himself 
right to the closest port, found a bounty crew who hired null, and he signed 
right on. This was the sort of crew where his two strikes were an asset, not a 
hindrance. 

The Syndicate knew about the Walk-On List. Of course they knew. 
There was even a holo drama about it a few seasons back. Rights 
organizations crowed about it. They wrote bills in subcommittees 
demanding the practice be officially condemned. Nothing ever happened. 
Syndicate security still patrolled the planets. They still hunted down and 
captured, and sometimes killed, trespassers. 


But the corporations, who were the real culprits? There was no 
accountability. None. 

Bastards, all of them, Sadir thought bitterly. Some of these worlds had 
guaranteed income just for being lucky enough to be born on the planet. 
And here he was, literally risking his life and freedom to make a living. 

Risking his life to track down a godsdamned cat named Gravy Boat. 

“There’s only one other cat on the scan, but it’s in the camp,” Sadir said. 

“Tits,” Gennrik replied. He thought for a moment. “Switch the scan to 
human. How many are there?” 

“Too many,” Sadir said a moment later. “There are 74 humans in the 
camp. Only six are juveniles. One of which is a sub-yearling.” 

Gennrik let out an annoyed trumpet noise. “Fuck it. Let’s go for it. If we 
find the thing, itll be the first A-tier target captured, and we’ll get the 
bonus.” 

Sadir hesitated, but only for a moment. The Walk-on list was shorter 
than usual this year, meaning the competition was fierce. Bringing human 
attention to themselves would be a big risk, but if this was their target, the 
potential rewards were astronomical. 

Sadir’s team wasn’t even bothering with the woman in the tropical zone, 
despite the unusually high value placed on her capture. It was a lost cause. 
The area had been flattened with a tsunami after Borant parked their 
executive headquarters not too far from there. The entire area had been 
washed clean. Nobody was alive. 

Still, dozens of hunters who’d infiltrated the planet were in the tropical 
zone searching for the prize. An equal number were in the southern 
hemisphere seeking that little girl’s father. That prize was lower, but he was 
much more likely to be found. Nobody had found shit yet. They were all 
likely dead, Sadir knew. They had to be, or they would’ve been found by 
now. That happened. Sometimes a season’s Walk-on list would have 5,000 
names, and only one or two would be found. 

And this time it was even harder than usual. Normally they had access 
to the planet’s snapshot as captured during the exact moment of the 
collection. But Borant had pulled their underhanded orcshit by starting the 
crawl early. Sadir was sick of the extra protections given to these 
governments. A person couldn’t stave off a collection action because they 
had some project brewing. How was it fair? And because Borant started 
early, throwing everything into disarray, the probes had last done a backup 


two days earlier, meaning all the records, including the location data and the 
native internet backup, were stale by the time everything went offline. 

But they weren’t without hope. When a planetwide collection occurred, 
all citizens and sustainable fauna were placed into three categories: 
Collected, Crawlers, and Natives. The Collected were, of course, those 
unlucky enough to get caught up in the collapse of the societal 
infrastructure. In most cases, and especially in this one, this group 
comprised of the largest percentage of people. The Crawlers were those 
who chose to enter the game. The Natives were everybody else. 

As the game progressed and certain crawlers rocketed to the forefront, 
the season’s producers oftentimes pulled from their library of collected 
citizens to add drama. Who could forget that Valtay season when Crawler 
Hoon piloted his mech to the elevator leading to the 12" floor, only to find 
his own children—repurposed as sentinel hunter killers—guarding the exit? 
All five of them, even the yearling. Hoon had chosen to eat his own gun. It 
was one of the few times the cruelty of the game had been too much, even 
for the free citizens. Sadir felt a shiver come over him, remembering that 
moment. They’d banned the use of collected children after that. Pregnant 
women, too. 

Fucking Valtay, Sadir thought. They were the cruelest of them all. 

But what happened when the producers wanted to use a specific native, 
and that person couldn’t be found? If they weren’t collected, and they 
weren’t a crawler, that meant they’d survived the initial collapse and they 
chose not to enter the dungeon. Most of those people were dead. The 
attrition rate of natives oftentimes mirrored that of the crawl, though on a 
slower scale. 

The producers wanted to find and utilize the missing Natives. They 
wanted to bring certain individuals into the dungeon. But there was a 
problem. The rules were clear. They were untouchable. 

And then came the Walk-On list. 

The practice of hiring trackers to sneak onto the planet and hunt down 
and kidnap desired survivors was not even remotely legal. It wasn’t 
something any corporation could justify in court. But they were never 
called out on it. Very few people outside a few fringe groups cared. If the 
viewers could justify the subjugation of an entire planet, an extra crime or 
two was hardly worth a second thought. The practice was as old as the 
crawl itself. 


Finding someone should be easy. Even on the frontier planets with 
trash-tier sniffer zones, tracking individual natives was as easy as initiating 
a handshake with the planet’s AI controller. Earth had a perfectly fine 
controller system, better than most planets. Thanks to the Indigenous 
Species Protection Act, however, once the crawl started, all natives had 
their implants scrambled, despite being born with the damn things. They 
were “free.” Once the crawl was done, and this entire circus moved on to 
another system, the planet would be locked down for multiple generations. 
Sadir couldn’t remember exactly how long, but it was a while. 

“This is a waste of time,” he muttered as they trudged toward the 
settlement. It was located on a flat area a kilometer from the last known 
location of the cat. He glanced up at his partner as thick, almost-frozen rain 
dripped off his camo netting. “We should be searching for that man in the 
southern hemisphere. Or that other creature. The goat.” 

“If we don’t find the mark,” Gennrik replied, “we will move on. The 
captain is going to send us to the jungle on the planet’s other side. To find 
that dead crawler’s twin.” He held up a hand as the shuttle flashed by in the 
dark sky. They both relaxed. It was not Syndicate security. 

Sadir grunted. “As long as the weather is more suitable.” 

“I like the weather here,” Gennrik said. They crouched and ran along 
the cracked rock of a human street. This was a wide road, made of black 
rocks, rough to the touch. Occasionally, rectangle-shaped holes in the 
roadway appeared, indicating places where the human vehicles had been 
pulled down during the collapse. 

Sadir gave Gennrik a withering look. It was supposedly the last weeks 
of winter in this hemisphere. This was not pleasant weather, no matter what 
world you came from. This metropolis, once called “Seattle,” supposedly 
had a dense population. He had trouble believing it. Even humans weren’t 
stupid enough to subject themselves to this climate when this planet’s 
equatorial region was a paradise. 

The glow of multiple fires appeared in the distance. They’d positioned 
the camp against the side of what had once been a bridge over a roadway, 
placing tents where the freezing winds off the salt-water sound couldn’t 
reach them as easily. Fires burned in controlled circles, despite the driving 
rain. There were over thirty tents. The bones of wood-built structures rose 
nearby. It appeared as if they’d just started rebuilding. 


Remnants of the society they’d lost dotted the encampment. Sadir noted 
multiple gasoline-powered machines, mostly two and four-wheeled, open- 
top, single passenger vehicles. An electric light shone over one large tent, 
and music played from another. There was movement about. Despite the 
late hour, the camp was not asleep. 

“Check your weapon,” Gennrik said. 

Sadir examined his air-powered, flechette gun on his hip. He’d had it set 
to knock out a cat. He ticked up the dosage by three, which would render 
most humans unconscious in moments. He much preferred the reliability 
and simplicity of a regular stun pistol, but the signature of the weapon 
would alert every security probe in the solar system. 

The two hunters lowered to the ground and pulled the camouflage 
netting over themselves. They settled in to observe. Sadir pulled out his 
scanner and zoomed in on the cat’s location. Now that they were closer, he 
could see the exact tent the cat was in. It was the third tent, pushed back 
against the side of the hill. He cycled through the scan, looking for other 
life forms. There were also two humans in the shelter. He set in, mapping 
out the location of all the life forms in the camp. He pulled a sheet of ready 
paper and started drawing out a diagram. 

He had a thought, and he recalibrated the scanner. The Syndicate 
generally didn’t place security in native camps, but he did a sweep of all 
known syndicate security protocols. He really should’ve done this first. He 
caught something odd at the top of the hill overlooking the camp, but it 
disappeared a moment later. He zoomed in with his scope. There was 
nothing. Whatever it was, it wasn’t Syndicate security. They didn’t do 
subtle. He risked a deep scan of the area, and the anomaly was gone. 

“Tell me something,” Gennrik said as Sadir worked. “Why do you do 
this? I heard you the other day, talking via tunnel to your mate. You lied and 
claimed you were working on an elemental barge. I heard what you said. 
How much you hate Borant. How much you hate the crawl. Yet here you 
are, risking your life to make the production more entertaining.” 

Sadir bristled. Both at the invasion of privacy and the fact the sac had 
called him out on his own hypocrisy. 

“T have multiple children,” Sadir said after a moment. The very first tent 
had four dogs inside of it, but it appeared they were very small. Not 
dangerous. Just loud. He wrote that down. “They live in the null commune 
in the Filt system. The orcs have raised resident alien tax rates once again. 


If they want to stay, I need to earn a wage. I suppose I am just like the 
crawlers you see on the show. They are hurting others for their own 
survival.” 

“But there have got to be less dangerous ways to make money,” Gennrik 
said. “My family does this because we like doing it. And to earn money for 
the Prism’s buy-in bid. You don’t need this risk, not if you dislike it. It’s a 
big galaxy. You can do anything.” 

Sadir grunted. “That’s easy for a sac to say. The null have never had it 
easy. Even these humans knew what we looked like. They sold novelties 
with our likeness on them. That is how deep the hatred of my kind is 
rooted.” 

Gennrik made a honking noise. “They knew your likeness because your 
people were illegally poking around the system before the crawl. Besides, 
in the inner system, all are free. It doesn’t matter what you are.” 

Sadir didn’t even bother answering. They had a job to do. “We can pass 
behind the first two tents and breach along the fabric wall of the third here,” 
he said, pointing his long finger onto the sheet of ready paper, tracing their 
route. “The humans are asleep in the first two tents. One is awake in our 
target tent. We must be as quiet as possible as the dogs in the first tent might 
sense our presence. Luckily we have the loudness of the rain.” 

Gennrik nodded his assent to the plan. They didn’t waste any more time. 
Both pulled their weapons free and rushed up the hill toward the camp, 
sticking to the pools of darkness. 

Sadir thought of his children as they started their raid. He prayed they 
would grow and have a peaceful life, one where they’d never have to do 
something like this just to survive. 


Brad couldn’t sleep. He looked over at the woman on the inflatable 
mattress, curled up with the large, orange cat. She’d cried herself to sleep 
again. The others were getting pretty annoyed with her. Everyone had to 
work. That was the rule. If you wanted to live in New Queen Anne, you had 
to work. Everyone was afraid and overwhelmed. But they still worked. That 
meant fishing, foraging, tilling, or building. 

Bea did none of those. 


Ostensibly she was a nurse, and she would “work” if someone needed 
healing. But that was a joke. They had four doctors already in their group. 
Actually, all of them were dentists. They’d been on the same flight as Bea 
and Brad, all coming back from the Bahamas. They’d all been stranded 
together at the Atlanta airport for hours because of the snowstorm, and 
they’d arrived home in Seattle ten hours late. All of them had been standing 
in the parking garage just before it happened, waiting for their Ubers to take 
them home. That crazy man had started setting cars on fire, causing them all 
to flee outside into the cold. 

Itd happened so fast. The police had the man in handcuffs, and he’d 
been fighting them. He’d been screaming at the cops in a weird language. 
Brad was filming the whole thing on his phone. It was the most entertaining 
shit that’d happened to him since he’d talked a drunk Bea into posting that 
picture on her Instagram. 

But then the world ended, leaving just him and Bea and the four dentists 
standing there surrounded by rubble. The cops and crazy homeless guy had 
gotten caught up by the edge of the parking garage. There’d been an 
entrance to the dungeon or whatever it was called pretty close nearby, but 
Bea had been screaming. He stayed with her. 

He regretted it. He used to make so much fun of her cuck boyfriend. 
She walked all over the dude, and he didn’t do shit. Brad had been 
moderately impressed when the guy had grown some balls and finally 
dumped her after she posted the picture. But then Bea flipped the fuck out 
and demanded they leave the resort early. They’d been paid up for another 
four days, but she wouldn’t stop crying. Her bitch friends pretty much 
pushed the two of them out of the suite. 

So they went home. 

I should’ve stayed, he thought. If he was going to be stuck in an alien 
invasion apocalypse, it would’ve at least been in better weather. 

But that wasn’t his real regret. Oh no. 

I should’ve gone into that dungeon. 

When he couldn’t sleep, which was never now, he thought of that giant, 
welcoming hole into the ground. He’d wanted to go in so bad. He didn’t 
know what was in there, but it had to be better than this. He hated that he 
missed his chance at glory. 

I am a king, he thought. I am a king. 


A guy that worked on the tarmac had found them. Tarik. He’d been 
driving an electric cart thing with a bed, and they’d all piled on, routing 
through people’s suitcases for warm clothing. They’d spent that first night 
huddled in a pile of clothes watching all the lights descending like falling 
stars. And then... nothing. They were ignored by the invaders. Spacecraft 
came and went all day every day. They even saw them, sometimes, walking 
about in groups on the surface. There were different kinds and sizes. 

But the aliens simply didn’t acknowledge the presence of the humans. 
They were dismissed as irrelevant. A thing to be avoided, like a pile of 
dogshit in the road. 

After a week of camping at the remnants of the airport, hiding and 
afraid, the small group decided to seek out other people and supplies. They 
trekked their way to the city where they found the burgeoning community 
of New Queen Anne. Now, over a month later, they remained. The invaders 
continued to leave them alone. What Brad had assumed was going to be a 
temporary camp was shaping up to be their new permanent home. They 
were constructing wood buildings. Once the weather improved, they’d plant 
crops. 

Bea whimpered in her sleep. The large cat was wrapped around her 
head. The thing had already shredded their first inflatable mattress. Brad 
didn’t care what Bea said, if the damn thing ruined anything else in the tent, 
he was out of here. And if she complained about it, she was gone, too. He 
was getting sick of just doing everything she wanted. It was embarrassing. 

His eyes focused on the cat. It wasn’t even Bea’s cat, but some stray. 

Bea had insisted on returning to her old apartment, trying to look for 
that fucking weird cat of hers that always howled and scratched at him. 
Never mind the thing had its own damn room in the apartment. Never mind 
it never left that cat tree by the window. It was dead along with everybody 
else in the world. Brad knew exactly what they were going to find, but he’d 
taken her anyway just to shut her up. 

The apartment was a hole in the ground just like every other building in 
the area. Some of the items remained. The trees. Most of the light poles and 
signs. A few random vehicles. There was a scooter they could possibly use, 
but it had a parking enforcement boot on it. 

The first thing they’d noticed was the decomposed and rancid human 
head just sitting there on the ground. Bea had vomited and started crying all 
over again. 


They were about to leave, but then Brad noticed the cat sitting in the 
tree. No fucking way, he thought, but only for a moment. This was a 
different cat than the one Bea was looking for. The thing was skin and 
bones, and for a moment Brad thought it was literally frozen on the tree 
branch. But then it let out a loud, deep meow, and it jumped to the ground 
and started rubbing against their legs. 

Bea, already crying, scooped the thing right up and started sobbing even 
louder. “Ferdinand! You asshole. You stupid little asshole!” She clutched 
onto the cat and sobbed and refused to let go. 

“You know this cat?” Brad asked. “How?” 

She didn’t answer right away. She just hummed to herself while she 
rocked back and forth. She’d been doing that a lot lately. It was fucking 
weird. She was cracking up. Finally, she said, “He’s my neighbor’s cat. His 
name is Gravy Boat, but he used to come to the window and try to get in 
when Princess was in heat.” She stuck her face dangerously close to the 
cat’s “You wanted to fuck my girl, didn’t you? You wanted to get in and 
ruin her.” The cat, who’d been purring, suddenly hissed and scratched her 
face. She didn’t even seem to notice. “I called him Ferdinand before I found 
out his real name. I would say, ‘Go away, Ferdinand,’ and he’d yowl and 
scratch at the window. Princess would hiss and spit at him. She knew he 
was no good.” Bea looked Brad straight in the eye. She had blood running 
down her face. “She was a lot smarter than me.” She turned her face back to 
the cat. “I tried to get animal control to get him, but they could never find 
him.” 

“Well, he seems to be doing okay out here on his own. We better get 
back...” 

The angry look from Bea shut that down right away. 

So the thing came back with them. The cat was half feral, and it did not 
like being brushed or petted too much. But every night when the rations 
were distributed it was back in the tent sitting next to Bea while she 
dropped a little bit of her fish onto the floor for it to eat. 

At night, she’d sit there in the dark and hug the cat until it yowled and 
scratched at her to let it go. She had cuts all up her arms and face from the 
monster. It’d eventually settle on the mattress next to her. She would stroke 
its yellow and orange fur and sing softly to the cat in that weird voice. 

“Good boy, good boy, you’re a good boy, Ferdinand. You’re no Gravy 
Boat. Oh no, oh no. Pd take it all back and let you in. I’d do it all over 


again. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry, Ferdinand. I should have let you in.” 

She’d sing some variant of that bizarre song until she fell asleep. Brad 
envied her ability to sleep. He sat now in their lone plastic chair, chewing 
on a scavenged candy bar. He fantasized about the mysterious dungeon. I 
am a king. 

He stared at the knife, uncomprehending as it pierced through the tarp 
wall of the tent and started to cut downward. 

“Hey!” he called. “Who’s there? That’s my goddamned tent!” 

He jumped to his feet. He grabbed the crowbar he kept by the real tent 
flap. His heart started to thrash as the two figures appeared through the hole 
in the wall, both of them holding strange, nerf-like guns. 

It was a tall, octopus-faced dude and a gray alien wearing a fur coat. 
This second one looked like one of those Roswell aliens with the head 
shaped like a guitar pick and the black, bug-like eyes. He was short, maybe 
four feet tall. 

The octopus pointed the weapon directly at Brad and was about to fire 
when its chest exploded, filling the tent with green gore. The tall, menacing 
alien slumped over. Gravy Boat jumped from the bed, and Bea sat up, 
confused. Brad dropped the crowbar. Everyone stopped, including the gray 
alien. All eyes were on the octopus alien with the hole in its chest. 

Bea started to scream. Gravy Boat bolted, running between the alien’s 
legs and disappearing out into the night. Two tents over, those four little 
shits started barking their heads off. People began to shout. 

The alien guy stopped, holding his hands up in the air in the now- 
confirmed-to-be-universal gesture of “I surrender.” It started babbling in 
that strange, alien language Brad and everybody else had been able to 
understand at first, but now they couldn’t anymore. 

The alien started to turn to face the exit, but he cast one glance at Bea 
and stopped dead all over again. His gray skin flushed, suddenly turning a 
shade of purple. He dropped the alien weapon and slowly lowered his arms. 

“B... B... Beatrice?” he asked in heavily accented speech. It sounded 
like a question. 

Bea stopped screaming. They stared at each other, both of them with 
their mouths agape. 

What the fuck was going on? 


A new figure emerged. She stuck her head in the tent, looking about 
before stepping fully inside. It was a woman. A human. Sort of. She was 
Asian, but she looked odd. Anorexic with her eyes too close together. She 
wore a Skintight, black bodysuit and held onto what looked like a pump- 
action shotgun, which she placed firmly against the alien dude’s back. He 
raised his hands back into the air. 

Those dogs aren't barking anymore, Brad thought. It’d gone completely 
silent out there. That wasn’t good. 

The woman said something in the alien language, and the Roswell guy 
answered. Bea rushed over to Brad, who put an arm around her. He eyed the 
alien pistol that the dead octopus had dropped. I’m going to go for it. I am a 
king. 

“Miss Beatrice,” the woman said. She still spoke in the alien language, 
but now a translation came out from a hidden speaker in her clothes. The 
words mixed in with the alien speak, making it a little hard to understand. 
“My name is Lexis. I apologize for the inconvenience, but Syndicate 
security is on its way. You are being hunted. I am here to take you to 
safety.” 

Brad barely heard this. He was laser focused on the gun on the ground. I 
can do this. I’m going for it. I am the king. 

I am the goddamned king. 


“T got her,” Lexis said into the communicator. A floating image of her boss 
appeared over the screen. “Killed a sac pirate. Captured another. I suggest 
we make it look like he turned on his partner. Shot him right in the back. 
He’s a null, so they’ Il buy it. Oh, I also had to shoot a human. Bea’s partner. 
He’s still alive. He tried to get to the pirate’s flechette. I’d call him brave, 
but he’s crying like a little girl. He’s going to bleed out in a few minutes if I 
don’t intervene.” 

“What about the cat?” asked Odette. 

“He’s knocked out with the rest of the settlement. The thing is fast. He 
almost got away. Security will arrive in three minutes. The first responders 
are on our payroll, but a supervisor will want to come down for this one. 


I’m guessing we have twenty minutes at most. Do you want me to bring the 
cat? Also, I can wipe the whole town if you want.” 

Odette thought for a moment. “Any witnesses?” 

“Just the ones I mentioned. The null, Beatrice, the human I shot, and the 
cat.” 

“Okay. Here’s what we do. We’re not going to vaporize the town. Leave 
the null alive and plant the weapon like you suggested, but let the human 
expire. Put the cat in a bounty cube and leave him there. Shoot the null with 
the flechette gun. Maybe in the leg. Then drop it on the human. We’ll have 
our security guys clean the scene up so it looks like the whole fight was 
over the cat, and nothing else.” 

“The null will talk,” Lexis said. “He’ll be facing multiple charges.” 

“Don’t worry about that,” said Odette. “I’ll get a message to him after 
he’s arrested. We’ll buy out his warrant. That’ll guarantee his cooperation. 
Pll have one of the security guys sneak the cat over to Borant. Let him 
collect the walk-on bounty. How’s Beatrice taking this?” 

“I, uh, had to knock her out and then stick her in a cube. She’s a little 
freaked out about the whole thing. I don’t think she’s all there. She has 
scratches all over her face.” 

Odette nodded. “When she wakes up, make sure you tell her that I can’t 
wait to meet her. And reassure her that we won’t be selling her to Borant. 
Tell her we have a much better use for her.” 

Lexis laughed. Her scanner beeped, indicating a security shuttle was 
about to land. “So, I guess it worked out for everybody.” She looked down 
at the dead sac. She thought of the poor cat, and what they were going to do 
to him. She shuddered. “Well, almost everybody.” 

Odette grunted. “We can’t all have happy endings. Now get to work.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


WOOHOO ! 


You did it! You read another one! It’s almost like we’re dating. Pretty soon 
we’ ll be introducing each other to our parents and fighting about me eating 
shredded cheese directly from the bag at 3 a.m.. 

Four books written. Wow. Book five is well underway with plenty of 
chaos and mayhem, but it’s not quite done yet. As such, I don’t have an 
exact date to give you, nor do I have a secret title to give to you just yet. 
Don’t worry. It won’t be too long. If you sign up for my mailing list or 
follow me on Amazon or on Facebook, you’!l know as soon as I put the 
preorder link up. 

Let’s talk about reviews. It’s kinda important. I know, I know, I beg you 
guys for reviews every time. But reviews are super important. Without 
reviews, Toby the pug will starve to death, and he needs to eat like five or 
six meals a day. So please, please leave a review. Thanks so much! 


OceanofPDF.com 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Matt Dinniman is a writer and artist from Gig Harbor, WA. When he isn’t attending cat shows, 
wrangling dogs, feeding turtles, playing bass in a punk/metal band, or writing books about acid- 
spitting chinchillas, he designs cat-themed greeting cards and decorations. If you’ve ever walked into 
a Target or an IKEA or a Home Goods, looked at the weird wall art they have for sale there, and 
thought to yourself, who buys this crap? The answer is, “Not nearly as many people as Matt would 
like.” So please buy all his books. (Or his art!) 


fe AC) 


OceanofPDE:com 


MAILING LIST! PATREON! 


Join the Matt Dinniman mailing list and get the dope on new releases and 
more! Join up here! 


If you’re feeling especially saucy, you can join the Matt Dinniman Patreon 
and read advance chapters and whole books before they come out on 
Amazon. 


Wwww.patreon.com/dinniman 


OceanofPDE:.com 


ALSO BY MATT DINNIMAN 


Kaiju: Battlefield Surgeon (Horror LitRPG!) 
Dominion of Blades Series (LitRPG!) 
The Shivered Sky Series (Angels vs demons!) 
The Grinding (A horror novel!) 


Trailer Park Fairy Tales (Short stories! One of them even won a fancy award!) 


OceanofPDF:com 


THE PAGE WHERE WE TOUT FACEBOOK GROUPS SO THEY LET US 
SPAM THEM ABOUT THIS BOOK 


Over on Facebook, if you want to talk about Gamelit. I mean if you really 
want to talk about Gamelit, check out the Gamelit Society! 


Wait, there’s more! There’s the super-awesome extreme LitRPG Books 
Group! 


OceanofPDE:com 


