CARL'S DOOMSDAY SCENARIO 


OceanofPDE:.com 


DUNGEON CRAWLER CARL, BOOK II 


OceanofPDE:.com 


MATT DINNIMAN 


OceanofPDF:.com 


DANDY HOUSE 


OceanofPDE:com 


Copyright © 2021 by Matt Dinniman 
All rights reserved. 


No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, 
including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, 
except for the use of brief quotations in a book review. Permission will be granted in exchange for 
noodz or gift certificates to Panda Express. 


EDITED By Cheryl Dyson 
http://www.cheryldyson.com 

COVER ILLUSTRATION BY Luciano Fleitas 
https://www.artstation.com/lucianofleitas 
Cover DEsIGN By Toby Dinniman 
https://www.collageorama.com 

INTERIOR ILLUSTRATIONS BY Erik Wilson 


http://www.erikwilsonartgallery.com/ 


OceanofPDE:.com 


Thanks (again!) to all of my readers and friends. High five to all my Donut 
Holes over on Patreon. You guys rock. Also thanks to everyone on Royal 
Road for reading every damn word and letting me know the very moment I 
post a typo. 


An extra shout-out goes to Fiona the hippo and Blair Underwood. You guys 
know what you did. 


OceanofPDE:.com 


If you hold a cat by the tail you learn things you cannot learn any 
other way. 


- MARK TWAIN 


OceanofPDF:.com 


CONTENTS 


Chapter 1 
Chapter 2 
Chapter 3 
Chapter 4 
Chapter 5 
Chapter 6 
Chapter 7 
Chapter 8 
Chapter 9 
Chapter 10 
Chapter 11 
Chapter 12 
Chapter 13 
Chapter 14 
Chapter 15 
Chapter 16 
Chapter 17 
Chapter 18 
Chapter 19 
Chapter 20 
Chapter 21 
Chapter 22 
Chapter 23 
Chapter 24 
Chapter 25 
Epilogue 


It’s that time again. 

About the Author 

Mailing List! Patreon! 

Also by Matt Dinniman 

The page where we tout Facebook groups so they let us spam them about this book 
One More! 


OceanofPDF:.com 


WELCOME, CRAWLER TO THE THIRD FLOOR. 
The previous level will collapse in 3 hours and 35 minutes. 


We teleported straight from the green room to a long, golden hallway 
reminiscent of the first hallway we entered. 

“Carl, look! We’re outside!” Donut said, looking up into the air. 

Sure enough, a dark sky rose above us, dotted with stars. A colorful 
nebula, reminiscent of the background image on Odette’s stage, covered the 
sky. 

The air still felt stale. I pulled my slingshot, aimed it at the stars, and I 
fired. 

Plink. Sure enough, the rock bounced off the ceiling, about 25 feet up. 

“Tt’s an illusion,” I said. “It’s like that mall in Las Vegas. They make it 
look like you’re outside, but you’re really not.” 

“Well, that’s disappointing,” Donut said. 

The walls and the ground were made of golden-colored bricks. A plush, 
red carpet led to a familiar door at the end of the hallway. As we 
approached, the door opened on its own. A tall figure stepped out, and all 
three of us stopped. 

A well-built, young and disgustingly handsome man wearing a tuxedo 
waited for us. His skin was a dusky gray, and he had a short pair of devil 
horns jutting from his forehead. The man stood about my height, and he had 
long gray and black hair that was held back in a ponytail. A barbed tail 


poked from the rear of his tuxedo. A pair of black, bat-like wings sat folded 
tightly against his back. 

“Hello, Mordecai,” I said, examining his new form. “Jesus, dude. 
Looking good.” 

“Wow,” Donut said, looking him up and down. “I wouldn’t kick you out 
of bed for eating crackers.” 

Even Mongo’s customary screech sounded as if he was in awe. 

Mordecai — Incubus. Level 50. 

Guildmaster of this guildhall. 

This is a Non-Combatant NPC. 

Also known as the Gigachad of the Over City, Incubi are the male 
counterparts of the infamous Succubus. The smooth, seductive, and 
ultimately deadly Incubus can be identified by his stunning good looks, 
exquisite charm, and sensuous feet. They can only be found on the 
urban levels of the dungeon. They give new meaning to the phrase, “hit 
it and quit it.” 

“Princess Donut, Carl, little Mongo, welcome to the third floor. The 
training levels have concluded. Now the games may truly begin,” Mordecai 
said, bowing slightly. Even his voice had gotten deeper. He indicated for us 
to enter. 

We walked inside, and the door closed behind us. 

“Training levels?” I said. “For fuck’s sake. You call those training 
levels?” 

“Oh, thank goodness,” Mordecai said once the door closed. He ripped 
the jacket off and pulled off the tie, unbuttoning the top three buttons. The 
jacket was odd, with a pair of long slits along the back to accommodate his 
wings. “I thought you two were never going to show up. I’ve been in this 
thing for three hours waiting for you. I hate formal wear.” 

“The interview ran long,” I said. “I take it the general public can’t watch 
this part?” 

“Nope,” he said. “They’!l watch you go in, and they’ll watch you come 
out, but they don’t get to see what’s going on inside. It’s like a jury room.” 

His room was exactly the same as it had always been, but he’d cleaned 
up even further. A pair of beds had magically appeared since the last time 
we’d been in here. 

“Those are for the transformation, if required,” he said. “Remember 
what happened with Donut when she took that enhanced pet biscuit?” 


I swallowed, remembering the weird, gooey blob thing she’d 
transformed into before. 

“So,” Mordecai said, “have you decided who wants to go first? I 
suggest Princess...” 

“Me,” Donut said, jumping up on one of the beds. “Let’s get this 
rolling.” 

“Okay, Carl, take a seat,’ Mordecai said. I sat in one of the chairs. 
Mongo jumped into my lap and squeaked, sounding concerned. 

“Mommy will be okay,” Donut said. “You hang out with Uncle Carl for 
a few minutes while I get some work done. Behave yourself.” 

The baby velociraptor settled into my lap. I suddenly felt uncomfortable 
having that many teeth so close to my crotch. If he bit me now, I didn’t 
know what would happen. I suspected he wouldn’t teleport away. Instead, 
he’d get frozen like Frank and Maggie had that one time. Hopefully, I 
wouldn’t find out. 

“Okay,” Mordecai said. He waved his hand and a screen appeared 
floating in the air, like we were on Odette’s show. “Your current race is 
‘cat.’ This is a list of all the available races you may choose. It looks like 
you’ve been given 320 different choices. It is in alphabetical order, and you 
may click on any of them to drill down to a very specific set of details. 
Also, the system AI has narrowed it down to a set of three 
recommendations. We will spend the next hour or so going over these 
choices, and then I will...” 

“I choose cat. Next.” 

Mordecai took a deep breath. “Donut, there are a few choices on here 
where you’ ll actually look mostly...” 

“Cat. Final answer. Let’s move on.” 

Mordecai looked at me. I shrugged. She’d made it clear from the start 
that she wasn’t going to change. I was just happy she’d dropped the idea of 
me turning into a cat also. 

“Okay, then,” he said. “A message will pop up, and you have to confirm 
your choice by clicking on it.” 

“Wait,” I said, a horrific thought coming to me. “It’s not going to, you 
know, change her back to the way she was before is it?” 

“Too late,” Donut said. She glowed for a moment. “I clicked it.” She 
looked at her paw. “I feel the same.” 


“No,” Mordecai said. He looked pointedly at Donut. “But it is important 
to ask questions like that. I made it so she actually chose to not make a 
choice. Nothing will change, but she will now have access to a few racial 
benefits she didn’t have before.” 

“Benefits? What are they?” Donut asked. 

“I don’t know, Princess Donut,” Mordecai said, sounding exasperated. 
“We never got to examine the cat choice in the menu. You’ll be able to see 
when we’re done. And you wouldn’t have changed yet anyway. The change 
doesn’t happen until the end of the process.” 

“Okay, Donut,” I said. “We need to think carefully about this next 
choice. Let’s see what the AI suggests. Okay?” 

“Let’s do this,” she said. “Show me anything with the word princess or 
queen in the title.” 

“Okay, moving on,” Mordecai said. A list of items appeared on the 
screen, though the list appeared to be much shorter than the last one. 

Mordecai paused, his eyes flashing as he quickly looked over the 
selections. “Okay, Princess Donut. It looks as if you’ve been given 34 class 
choices. That’s a pretty short list. In fact, it’s the shortest I’ve ever seen, but 
I think that’s a combination of your racial choice and a result of your stats. 
Your base constitution is still two," He paused. "No, actually it's four now 
thanks to your racial choice of cat.” He again searched through his unseen 
menus. “Oh, I see now. It’s actually a combination of four things. You both 
also have that Desperado pass, which precludes several of the classes right 
off the bat. And Donut has that tiara on her head, which narrows it even 
further. But that’s all right, there are still a few great choices on there.” 

“So what’s good?” Donut asked, looking at the list. “Ohh, that one 
sounds cool. It sounds menacing yet mysterious and fun. I pick that one.” 

“Wait,” I said, jumping to my feet. I caught the now-asleep Mongo in 
the crook of my arm and rushed to the screen. “Do not pick anything yet 
until we’ve looked it over carefully.” 

Donut pointed at something entitled NecroBard. 

Mordecai grunted. “That’s actually not a bad choice. It’s one of the 
three recommendations. 

I looked over the list. The only base classes available to her were Bard, 
Magic User, and Barbarian. Each of the base classes had a few additional 
items under them, including Necromancer, Wind Mage, and Warlock. 
The NecroBard subclass was listed under both Bard and Necromancer. 


There was also an Earth Class heading, and the majority of the available 
items were listed under there. Included on that list were several interesting 
items, including Feral Cat Berserker, Animal Test Subject, and Roller 
Derby Jammer. 

I looked at the list of the three AIl-picked recommendations. They were: 

Artist Alley Mogul 

NecroBard 

And 

Former Child Actor 

I said a silent thank you to the game gods that they hadn’t named the 
roller derby one “Derby Queen.” She probably would’ve insisted upon 
picking it without reading anything. We’d discussed this, and we had a 
loose plan based on Odette’s advice. But Donut was also prone to go off the 
rails from time to time. 

“Donut,” I said. “Click on each of the three recommendations so we can 
see the information.” 

“Pm telling you right now I am absolutely not choosing this one,” 
Donut said as she clicked on the first choice. 

Artist Alley Mogul 

This Charisma and Intelligence-based class is the modern-day 
merchant. Using your superior artistic talent to entertain and entice 
fellow nerds, the Artist Alley Mogul travels the world to sell her 
copyright-infringing wares. While not particularly menacing 
physically, this plucky merchant is extremely difficult to hurt. 
Members of this class receive the following benefits: 

+5 Dexterity 

Instant access to the level-5 Shield spell. 

A 25% discount at all stores plus a 15% bonus to money earned 
from sales. 

10% Interest earned on all coins upon descent to the next level. 

Level-5 Pathfinder skill 

Access to Enhanced Dodge, which allows the Dodge skill to train to 
level 20. 

Level-5 Dodge skill. (Already obtained) 

Additional subclasses become available on the sixth floor. 

This is an Earth Class. As an incentive to choose an Earth Class, 
you will receive a Silver Earth Box upon choosing this class. 


Mordecai grunted. “That incentive is a little weak compared to what 
they usually do. It’s usually a gold box and a couple stat points.” 

“I’m not surprised,” I muttered. My eyes immediately focused on that 
Pathfinder skill. Odette had said I needed to find something with that skill. 
But we were looking for something else, too. 

“Still,” Mordecai said. “This is a very good choice for her. If she can get 
Dodge over level 15, she will be almost impossible to hit. And a 25% 
discount at stores is great, too. That’ll be on top of the bonus she already 
gets from her charisma. Stuff will be half-price for her, and that’s a huge 
deal. But most importantly, you’d have access to the Pathfinder skill. Iel 
make finding stairwells, shops, and guilds much easier.” 

“Yeah, no,” Donut said. “Artist Alley? Really? Aren’t those the nerds 
that like Star Wars and draw pictures of cats dressed like the guys from A- 
Team and stuff?” She shuddered. 

“It’s a good choice,” I said. “Let’s look at the other two.” 

NecroBard 

This unusual class combines one of the most-loved occupations with 
one of the most reviled. Necromancers specialize in magic related to 
raising the dead. Bards must choose an entertainment-based skill. 
Depending on this choice, whether it be singing, the kazoo, or 
storytelling, the resulting crawler will use this skill to either entertain, 
protect, or glamour both the living and the dead. 

The NecroBard receives the following benefits: 

Instant access to a level-5 entertainment-based skill of their choice. 

Access to all membership-based clubs, regardless of current 
memberships. 

Free rooms at all saferooms. 

A 10% mana cost penalty on all non-Necromancer or Bard spells. 

Instant access to the Level-3 Turn Undead Spell. 

Instant access to the Level-3 Panty Dropper Spell. 

+5 to Constitution, Charisma, and Intelligence. 

-2 Strength 

Additional benefits depending on entertainment-based skill choice. 

“So help me god,” I said. “I will abandon you right here and right now 
if you choose to take up the kazoo.” 

“T could play an instrument,” Donut said, voice full of wonder. “I could 
be a singer!” 


“We want to keep viewers, remember?” I said. 

“What this description doesn’t say is that a lot of the necromancer spells 
will be cast with her instrument,” Mordecai said. “And that means she 
won’t have to use spell points to cast them. That’s pretty huge. Plus each 
instrument has a long list of additional benefits. This is a solid choice if you 
end up picking a DPS class. Something that does a lot of damage. She’ ll 
have a wide range of both protection and other support skills.” 

“Carl, look! I could get a harmonica!” Donut said. She’d pulled up the 
submenu of entertainment skills. She gasped. “Bongos. They have bongos, 
Carl.” 

“Harmonica? How would that even work?” I said. “You don’t have 
thumbs.” 

“You don’t need thumbs for the harmonica, Carl. Not if I get one of 
those neck thingies.” 

I had a quick vision of tiny Zev attempting to strangle me after I 
allowed Donut to take up a ridiculous instrument. “Please, let’s just look at 
that third choice.” 

Former Child Actor 

This rare subclass is an offshoot of the Character Actor class. It can 
only be obtained by Crawlers who have both received the “Cut!” 
achievement and have obtained at least one trillion views. 

Once a spoiled brat superstar, then addicted to drugs, you have 
crawled back from the brink stronger than ever. You are ready for your 
comeback. This Charisma and Chance-based class could go either way. 
You’|l either rise to the top, or you’Il be dead in a ditch in a week. 

This unique Earth class is based on the Bard/Rogue Jack-Of-All- 
Trades subclass, but with a few distinctive differences. 

In addition to the following benefits, the most distinct aspect of this 
multi-faceted class is the Level-3 Character Actor skill. This skill 
increases in level only upon descent to the next floor. 

Additional benefits: 

Immunity to all poisons and diseases. 

Level-5 Cockroach skill. 

+10 to Charisma. 

+15% faster growth in all Charisma-based skills. 

The Manager Benefit. 


This is an Earth Class. As an incentive to choose an Earth Class, 
you will receive a Silver Earth Box upon choosing this class. 

I watched Donut’s eyes get huge upon reading this one. 

“What the hell is the Character Actor skill? Or the Cockroach skill?” I 
asked. “And what was the ‘Cut!’ achievement? I don’t remember that one.” 

“T got it for being a good actress,” Donut said. “When we tricked the 
goblin shamankas.” 

“Okay, but it doesn’t explain what the character actor part means. 
Mordecai?” 

Mordecai didn’t say anything for several moments. His lip was curled in 
displeasure. On that incubus face of his, it looked downright menacing. 

“What?” he said. “Oh, so Character Actor. It’s a bit complicated. 
Basically every floor, Donut has to pick a specialty.” 

“Specialty?” I asked. 

“She can basically pick a new class each floor. Each floor from now on 
will have a theme. So it would be somewhat useful. If it’s a floor filled with 
ice monsters, she can pick a fire class, and so forth. But it’s also a chance- 
based skill. So if she chooses it, and then she chooses a fire mage, the 
system AI basically rolls the dice and decides how many fire mage spells 
and skills to give to her. And as soon as she’s done with the floor, she loses 
the skills and starts over. Each higher level of the Character Actor skill, 
however, gives better skills. It makes it so she is pretty weak for the early 
levels, but once you get higher, it can be quite powerful depending on her 
class choices.” 

“T don’t think I like that,” I said. “It leaves too much to chance. What 
about her existing skills, like Magic Missile and the like?” 

“Those are untouched. But if she chooses a class that has a penalty for 
those skills or spells, they will apply. For example, if she chooses a 
Necromancer specialty, that Magic Missile spell will cost 10% more to cast, 
but just for the length of that floor. Or if she chooses Warlock, her 
constitution will go down one point for the length of that floor.” 

I liked that she would be immune to poison and diseases. “What’s the 
cockroach skill?” 

“Basically, it gives a chance to survive a fatal attack. At level five she’s 
guaranteed one free lethal hit a fight, though she’d be near death afterward. 
At level ten, your health doesn’t go down at all after the first fatal strike. 


The problem is, the only way to train that skill is by using it. Or with 
potions, or a training guild if you can find one, but that can get expensive.” 

“I like it,” Donut said. “If I pick it, then I can just choose NecroBard as 
my specialty every floor, but pick a different instrument every time. 
Wouldn’t that be neat? It’s the best of both worlds!” 

“Not necessarily, Donut,” I said. “If you get a bad roll from the AI, you 
might get stuck with underpowered skills and spells until the next floor.” 

“Exactly,” Mordecai said. 

“Let’s spend some time looking at the other choices,” I said. “But of the 
three, I think I like the Artist Alley one the best.” 

“I agree,” Mordecai said. “I think the NecroBard might be better. But 
you’re right, Carl. It’s a... dangerous choice for your social numbers.” 

We spent some time going over the other choices, carefully looking at 
all the abilities. The Feral Cat Berserker was basically a barbarian that’d 
end up getting her killed immediately thanks to her low health, and the 
Animal Test Subject was a mage that specialized in using poison. It also 
caused the crawler to glow green. Warlock was a solid choice in terms of 
skills, but it caused her to lose one point of Constitution, which would make 
her just too fragile. The others used mostly melee-based attacks and weren’t 
really suitable. 

I took a deep breath. “Donut, I know you’re not excited about it. But I 
really think you should go with the Artist Alley Mogul class. It’s not 
perfect, but it’s the most well-rounded.” 

“Okay,” she said. 

I exchanged a look with Mordecai to see if he was buying it. He 
appeared skeptical. “Really?” I said. 

She approximated a shrug. “We gotta do what’s best for the team, right? 
You want me to be a nerd, |’ ll be a nerd.” 

Donut: CARL ARE YOU SURE ABOUT THIS? HE IS GOING 
TO BE REALLY MAD. 

Carl: Do it. 

“Okay, then,” Mordecai said. “The menu is going to pop up now, and 
you have to scroll down and choose it.” 

Donut glowed for a moment. A moment later, she glowed again. “Done. 
I am now a stupid Artist Alley Mogul.” 

“Goddamnit, Donut!” Mordecai cried. “God fucking damnit!” 

“And scene,” Donut said, waving her paw. 


“Whoa,” I said. Mongo stirred in my arms. “What’s happening?” 

“Mordecai dear, that’s Carl’s line. You should pick something else. Carl, 
he’s upset because I chose the Former Child Actor class. I was acting! Isn’t 
it great?” 

“That not acting,” I said. “It’s called lying.” 

“Tt wasn’t a lie. Not technically. I picked the Artist Alley Mogul as my 
third-floor specialty. It’s basically the same thing anyway, so I don’t see 
why he’s so upset. It said I received all the benefits except the 25% 
discount. Or the Shield spell. Or that Pathfinder skill.” 

“That’s like all of the usable benefits, Donut.” I sighed. “At least your 
Charisma is now higher. And you have that Cockroach skill.” 

“And I’m immune to poison and disease!” 

“Yeah,” Mordecai said drily. “And you’ve received the Manager 
benefit.” 

“Oh yeah,” I said. “What is that?” 

I already knew exactly what the manager benefit was. Odette had 
explained it in detail. 

“That’s me,” Mordecai said. “I’m the manager. From now on, for the 
remainder of your time in this godsforsaken place, I will instantly teleport 
to any saferoom you are in.” 

“Yay!” Donut cried. 

“No, not yay,” Mordecai said. “I was supposed to transfer to a magic 
guild after this floor. I like running the magic guild. My room gets bigger, 
and I have access to my potions and more spells. Now every time you sleep 
or eat or stop to brush your teeth, I’ll be forced to spend my time with you. 
Away from my room and my clothes and food. Oh gods, and I’ve lost my 
tunnel access. No more television. No more access to the information 
codex. And since I can no longer watch you stumbling around the dungeon, 
I will have no warning for when I’m to be teleported away. And if you buy 
a personal space...” He started grumbling under his breath. 

“That wasn’t cool, Donut,” I said. 

Donut: I TOLD YOU HE’D BE MAD. I DON’T LIKE PEOPLE 
MAD AT ME, CARL. 

Carl: Yeah, he’s pissed. Sorry about that. 

“If you do pick the Manager benefit, and it's not attached to an obvious 
choice, you’|l want to make it look like a mistake,” Odette had said. “Don't 
ask him about it, because once he tells you what it is, it'll be too late. He 


won't be allowed to tell you unless you ask. Make it look like it was all 
Donut’s idea, and you didn’t have anything to do with it. Mordecai can hold 
a grudge, but he still sees Donut as a child. He’ll forgive her. If he ever 
found out you did this on purpose, he would never forgive you.” 

“What if that manager benefit is attached to a class that isn’t as good?” I 
said. “I like having him around, but it doesn’t seem like that great of a 
trade-off if it hobbles Donut.” 

“There’s a lot he can’t tell you or help you with as a game guide. As a 
manager, that’s all out the window. He’ll lose access to the codex, and 
everything he tells you will have to be from his own memory. But Mordecai 
has been in the dungeon for a very long time, and that brain of his is the 
single greatest resource any crawler can have. As long as he wants to help 
you, it’ll be the next best thing to having him in the party. He’ll be able to 
use the chat feature. He is an alchemical master. Get him in front of an 
Alchemist’s table, and he’ll be able to make you potions. Surely you can see 
the benefit in that.” 

I did, indeed, see the benefit in it. So we’d decided to take Odette’s 
advice. I didn’t like lying or tricking Mordecai. He was as close to a friend 
as I could get to an alien, and I knew this could irreparably harm that trust 
and friendship if he ever found out. Furthermore, I didn’t trust Odette. We 
now owed her, and she potentially held something over us. But I did trust 
that she wanted us to survive for as long as possible. 

After quickly discussing it with Donut, we’d decided the risk was worth 
it. We would pick that benefit if it was available. 

Mordecai’s well-chiseled face groused. His smoldering eyes focused on 
Donut. “Well, congratulations, crawler. You are now Princess Donut the 
Level 13 Former Child Actor Cat. Welcome to the third fucking floor.” 

Mordecai glared at me. 

“Your turn,” he said. 


OceanofPDF.com 


MORDECAI TOOK A DEEP BREATH, AND I WATCHED HIM CALM HIMSELF. 

“Okay,” he said. “Let’s take a look at your race selections, Carl.” 

I sat on the bed. I’d transferred the still-sleeping Mongo to the seat. 
Donut sat next to the baby velociraptor and rested a paw on his tiny head. 

Lines and lines populated the screen. 

“Tt looks as if you have 398 choices. That’s a good amount,” the incubus 
said. 

I focused on the line of the three Al-recommended choices and laughed. 

Hobgoblin 

Human 

And 

Sasquatch 

“Huh, that’s odd,” Mordecai said. “I’ve never seen the system 
recommend the existing race before.” 

“The AI loves Carl’s tootsies,” Donut said. 

Mordecai made a face. He opened his mouth as if to say something, 
then closed it. 

I clicked on the first one, the Hobgoblin 

A spinning, 3D model of a large creature appeared in the air. They were 
basically large, more muscular goblins, but with festering sores on their 
faces. My stomach lurched at the sight of the monster, and for the first time 
what was happening here really hit me. 

I can say the word, and I will turn into that thing. Forever. Holy shit. 

“Ew,” Donut said. “Carl, you are not picking that. If you’re going to 
change, you should pick what he chose.” She waved at Mordecai. “An 


Incubus. Or a Changeling. Yes, a Changeling! You can alter yourself to fit 
my current class. Carl, wouldn’t that be great?” 

“Neither of those are on the list,” I said. I didn’t like the idea of the 
Changeling anyway. Mordecai had said—like Donut’s Character Actor skill 
—the facsimile wasn’t always as good as the original. Extreme versatility 
came with a price. 

Hobgoblin 

This limited race is only available to Crawlers who have obtained a 
level five Explosives Handling skill by the time race selection becomes 
available. 

A Hobgoblin is what happens when a lady troll manages to get a 
goblin drunk enough to talk herself into his pants. Large, muscular, 
and smart, Hobgoblins excel at trapmaking, explosives management, 
and all-out mayhem. Unfortunately, these guys are so ugly even 
Gorgons lose their lunch looking upon them. This race is best suited for 
rogue and fighter-based classes. 

Automatic +3 to all trap-based and explosive-based skills. 

+5% Faster skill progression in all trap-based and explosive-based 
skills. 

Unlocks higher-tier explosives and trap-making abilities, allowing 
one to raise these skills to 20. 

Free access to all Hobgoblin Sapper Workshops. 

-5 to Charisma. Charisma is capped at 10. 

+1 to Dexterity. 

+2 to Intelligence. 

Adds the Regeneration skill (already obtained via Trollskin Shirt). 

This was a good race. In fact, it was almost perfect for the build I had in 
my mind. But there was no way I was going to turn myself into that thing. 
Absolutely not. The bonuses were great, but I would lose all of our viewers. 
They really were ugly. And not cute ugly like Mongo. These guys were 
genuinely unsettling to look at. 

I was curious what the system had to say about humans. 

Human 

You’re already a human. I’m going to go out on a limb here and 
guess you don’t need a description. If you choose this, nothing will 
change. Except for these racial benefits: 

+2 to all base stats. 


Adaptability. +2% faster skill progression. 

Choosing this race unlocks multiple exclusive, earth-based classes. 

I cringed a little as I clicked on my last choice. 

A large, hairy humanoid with massive feet started spinning. It looked 
almost identical to the creature in those beef jerky commercials. It was a 
stereotypical, hair-covered bigfoot creature with fangs and a giant forehead. 

Sasquatch. 

This limited race is only available to Crawlers who have obtained a 
level five Smush skill by the time race selection becomes available. 

Bigfoot. Yeti (if you choose an ice-based class). Skunk Ape. The list 
of nicknames for these things is almost endless, but in the end, the 
result is the same. First you take a human, you cross it with a gorilla, 
you make them a foot and a half taller, cover them with hair, and then 
give them size 24 feet. The resulting behemoth is a monstrous melee 
fighter and tank. 

+ 3 to Bash Skill 

+ 3 to Smush Skill 

-3 to Intelligence 

-1 to Charisma 

+6 to Strength 

+6 to Constitution 

+2 to Dexterity 

Unlocks higher tier Smush skill. 

I eyed the spinning, 3D bigfoot creature with distaste. I focused on the 
creature’s massive, sparkling feet. That was not going to happen. I didn’t 
want to become a joke or a fucking parody of an earth creature. I thought of 
what that orc had said, that I was the AI’s pet. No. No way. 

“Advice?” I asked Mordecai. 

“Keep looking,” he said. “There are a few additional races available that 
still give you access to the exclusive earth-based classes. Based on Donut’s 
offerings, it appears the earth classes are going to be the best ones this 
year.” 

For the next two hours, I read through every available race. There was a 
wide variety of choices, from short, squat, purple-skinned little people 
called Night Dwarves to tall, thin gazelle-like fighters called Lyrx Elves to 
monstrous rock creatures with molten centers called Coal Engines. There 
was even a finger-sized parasitic worm creature called an Intellect Hunter. I 


wondered if they were the same creatures who ran the Valtay Corporation, 
but I was afraid to ask. They could take over the bodies of any creature they 
killed, though the bodies would immediately start to rot. Mordecai said that 
was actually a solid choice, but I couldn’t imagine losing myself to that 
form. 

Most of the creatures were fairly balanced with one another. Generally 
the stats adjusted for a net gain of about 10 stat points, and if they didn’t, it 
came with a skill bonus or a few random abilities, like night vision, the 
ability to fly short distances, or inherent, racial spells. The exclusive races, 
like Hobgoblin and Sasquatch, usually added an extra bonus or two making 
them slightly better. 

I found one odd choice hidden amongst the others. A Primal. I clicked 
on it, and the 3D image was empty. 

Primal. 

For the first several seasons of Dungeon Crawler World, all 
contestants started off as Primals. Primals are blank slates. You will 
look the same as before. You will obtain all skills associated with your 
current race, with the following exceptions: 

-1 to all base stats 

All higher-tier skills are unlocked and are able to train to 20. 

Choosing this race unlocks multiple exclusive, earth-based classes. 

I thought about this for several moments, trying to decide if this was 
better or worse than a straight human. 

“How hard is it to train a skill above 15?” I asked Mordecai. 

“Getting skills up to ten or eleven is relatively easy as long as you use 
them regularly. Look at Donut’s Magic Missile skill. It’s only the third floor, 
and it’s already at level nine. But each level after that is a slog unless you 
really dedicate yourself to training. There are multiple ways to train skills 
up. There are guilds, equipment boosts, expensive potions, and unreliable 
spells. If you get a particularly generous sponsor, they might grant you 
something that’ ll also raise a skill. But it can be done with dedication and a 
lot of strategic planning. Every season, a few crawlers choose this race. It 
usually doesn’t pay off. Only a rare few crawlers manage to train one or 
two skills above 15.” 

“Is it worth it, to get a skill above 15?” 

“Absolutely,” he said. “A level 15 Fireball is a powerful spell that can 
ruin the day of most mobs. A level 16 Fireball is literally four times as 


potent. A level 20 can turn a mountain into an active volcano. If you 
manage to train one of your punching skills above 15, you will be 
unstoppable. But you’d have to get there first. If you choose this instead of 
human, you’ll miss out on the extra 10 stat points you obtain, and you’ll 
lose five additional points. It’s like starting five levels behind. That’s a big 
deal. But it’s not insurmountable. It’s well worth it if you plan your build 
carefully and dedicate yourself to a few core skills.” 

“Let me ask you something else,” I said. “The Maestro guy gifted 
something called a Legendary Skill potion to Maggie during his show. Are 
those things common?” 

“T can’t...” he paused, looking at Donut. His expression soured, as if he 
just remembered everything had changed thanks to that Manager skill. 
“They’re not common at all, and if you can find one for sale somewhere, it 
would cost many million gold. If that Maggie crawler has half a brain, 
she’ll sell it. But during the faction wars segment on the ninth floor, each 
clan can bring a war chest of supplies. That’s a specific unit of 
measurement based on volume. Each clan will usually fill these chests with 
such potions and magical rings and other small but powerful items. I’ll have 
to explain how that works later.” 

“So, they’ll have a bunch of these potions?” 

“The ninth floor is going to open up in about a half hour. And about 
fifteen minutes after that, most of those potions will have already been used 
up. But not all of them. Again, it’s a lot to explain.” 

“What’s your take?” I asked. “Human or Primal?” 

“You should pick Hobgoblin or Coal Engine, but both will probably 
lose you viewers. People hate hobgoblins. Interviewers don’t like them on 
their shows.” 

I looked over at Donut, who had fallen asleep. She’d curled up with 
Mongo. 

“What is a Primal anyway?” I asked. “It doesn’t say. Is it just something 
made up for the dungeon?” 

“Yes and no,” Mordecai said. “The Primals are the progenitors, the first 
known species to conquer the universe. They are the boogiemen of the 
cosmos. Nobody knows what they looked like or anything about them other 
than that they spread across the galaxy, and then one day, they just 
vanished. There was a great war that spanned all corners of the galaxies. We 
can see the remnants of the battles. If they were fighting a species other 


than themselves, we don’t know who they were. When someone comes 
across an abandoned remnant of their civilization, the resident AI, if it is 
still sane, usually takes the form of the race of the species who discovered 
it. That is why they look like whomever chooses them. It is said one day 
they will return. Mothers call upon Primals to instill fear into their young 
ones. Some systems worship them as gods.” 

I opened up the menu, scrolled all the way to the bottom, and I picked 
Primal as my race. 


My list of available classes consisted of over 650 choices. 

“You’d have even more if you didn’t have that tattoo on your neck,” 
Mordecai said. 

“Why? And what sort of classes are excluded?” 

“The Desperado club doesn’t allow, what is the word? Goody-two- 
shoes? It doesn’t allow those sorts. So no Cleric classes and Paladin 
classes,” Mordecai said. “Along with a few monk classes, which is 
unfortunate as they would’ve been worth a look. But I think all three of 
your suggested choices are good ones.” 

I looked over the AI’s recommend choices. All three were from the pool 
of earth-based classes. 

Bomb Squad Tech 

Prize Fighter 

And 

Compensated Anarchist 

“Hmm,” I said. I pulled up each one in turn. 

Bomb Squad Tech 

This exclusive class is only available to crawlers who have obtained 
the Boom! Achievement. 

People who actually choose to work with explosives are the craziest 
bastards around. You excel at making things blow up. And while you’re 
good at keeping the bombs from going off in your own hands, Bomb 
Squad Techs still tend to lose both friends and limbs at alarming rates. 
Luckily this class comes with a benefit that can fix 50% of that 
problem. 


All explosive-based traps will mark themselves as you approach. 

All armor is 10% more effective. 

The handling of explosives no longer degrades them. 

Automatic +2 to all explosive-based skills. 

+5 Bomb Surgeon skill 

+2 to Dexterity. 

+2 to Constitution. 

-2 to Intelligence (After all, only dumbasses would choose to do this 
for a living.) 

Plus the Limb Regeneration Benefit. 

This is an Earth Class. As an incentive to choose an Earth Class, 
you will receive a Silver Earth Box upon choosing this class. 

This was good, very good in fact, but it was missing some of the key 
benefits I was looking for. The next class had the same issues. 

Prizefighter 

This exclusive class is only available to crawlers who have obtained 
a Level five in the Pugilism skill. 

This is a Monk subclass. 

Sweaty, half-naked men circling each other in a ring, turning their 
faces into raw pulp as the crowd roars. The people in this audience 
don’t care who is fighting who, as long as one of them ends up a 
crumpled, bloody heap on the mat before the night is done. 
Prizefighters don’t do it for the glory, or for honor. They do it to put 
food on the table. It’s nothing personal. 

Prizefighters receive the following benefits: 

+5 to Constitution 

+2 to Strength. 

-2 to Intelligence 

-2 to Charisma 

+3 to the Pugilism Skill 

+1 to the Unarmed Combat Skill 

+1 to the Iron Punch Skill 

+5 to the Knockout Skill 

+(1 x Floor Number) gold for every mob killed with a punch. 

Unlocks higher-tier Pugilism Skill benefit (Benefit already received) 

This is an Earth Class. As an incentive to choose an Earth Class, 
you will receive a Silver Earth Box upon choosing this class. 


That +3 in Pugilism was a huge bonus considering I’d already managed 
to get it to 10 thanks to that Cheat Code potion. I’d pick this class in a 
second if I thought I could just punch my way through the dungeon. I knew 
already that wasn’t going to happen. I needed something that was more 
versatile. 

I sighed and pulled up the description on the third suggested class. 

Compensated Anarchist 

This rare and exclusive class is only available to crawlers who have 
obtained Level five in the Explosives Handling skill and have received 
at least 500 Billion views by the time they’ve reached the third floor. 

When the oligarchs want to manufacture a social movement, or 
better yet, stop one in its tracks, they must first bring in the big guns. 
The paid protestors. The Agent Provocateur. This Monk/Rogue hybrid 
class is a trapmaking, bomb-making, social-media dynamo. The 
Compensated Anarchist will happily throw a Molotov through a 
window one moment and step in front of a camera to plead for the 
violence to stop the next. Experts in hand-to-hand and dirty tactics, the 
Compensated Anarchist only suffers when it comes to more traditional 
fighting techniques. 

+1 to the Bomb Surgeon Skill 

+1 to the Trap Engineer Skill 

+1 to Unarmed Combat Skill 

-25% Damage when using bladed weapons 

+25% Mana cost for damage-dealing spells 

+5% skill progression speed in all trap-making and bomb-making 
skills. 

+ 2 Hide in Shadows Skill 

+ Fear spell 

+ 1 Intelligence 

+ 5 Charisma 

+5 to the Find Trap Skill 

+5 to the Backfire Skill 

+5 to the Escape Plan Skill 

Access to the Desperado Club (already obtained) 

Access to the Naughty Boys Employment Agency 

This is an Earth Class. As an incentive to choose an Earth Class, 
you will receive a Silver Earth Box upon choosing this class. 


Compensated Anarchists must choose a subclass upon descent to 
the sixth floor. 

“Holy shit. That seems like a winner,” I said. “This one has a ton of 
stuff attached to it. Though ‘Compensated Anarchist’ is kind of an 
oxymoron. I guess that’s the point.” 

“Yeah, all those classes with view-count minimums are usually really 
good. They do it on purpose to give the more popular players a boost. This 
one definitely seems tailored for you. Let me look deeper into it while you 
peruse some of the others. There’s probably a few issues hidden under the 
hood.” 

I started sorting through the mass of other classes. I could hide all the 
ones that didn’t have any special requirements, as they generally weren’t 
nearly as good. 

I didn’t get very far before the world rumbled. I glanced up, surprised. 
The second floor had collapsed. 

The new countdown appeared. We only had eight days to complete this 
next level. 

Welcome Crawlers to the third floor! We have just over 700,000 
crawlers remaining. You will have eight full days to complete this floor. 
We will have a longer announcement later, but we know most of you 
are currently dealing with your game guides. We are looking forward 
to seeing what races and classes everyone picks. We have some new, 
exciting classes available this season! Good luck to everyone! 

“Eight days,” Mordecai said, looking up at the ceiling. He shook his 
head. “If they keep this up, the sixth floor is only going to be open 11 or 12 
days. The factions are going to be pissed. It’s usually open for 30.” 

I went back to work. There were multiple classes that seemed really 
good on the surface. Many were similar to the Bomb Squad one, like Riot 
Forces Support and Trebuchet Commander. And a few of the non-earth 
ones were interesting as well, including the Rogue Trapmaster and 
Trickster class. 

Donut and Mongo snored loudly in unison as Mordecai and I discussed 
the ins and outs of each class. 

“Just a warning,” Mordecai said. “Donut didn’t have to worry about 
this, but some of these classes have strict stat minimums. The charisma 
minimum for the Compensated Anarchist is 25. You’ll have 36 points to 
distribute, but you’ll be forced to spend 17 of them on your charisma right 


away, even with that plus five. And then another six to get your base 
Dexterity up to 10, though I’d recommend that anyway.” 

“Yikes,” I said. “That kind of sucks.” 

“But several of the skills that it comes with are pretty rare. The Backfire 
skill, for example,” Mordecai said. “It allows you to pick up a trap and 
deconstruct it. You’ ll be able to use the materials for your own purpose. The 
triggering mechanisms alone are quite valuable. You could make a living 
just by farming traps.” 

We went over a few of the other skills. Bomb Surgeon, which came with 
a few of my choices allowed me to basically take a stick of dynamite and 
cut it into pieces, making smaller, less potent bombs. Or I could deconstruct 
smoke bombs and utilize the individual parts for traps. Hide in Shadows 
was self-explanatory, though with Donut and Mongo in tow, I imagined it 
wouldn’t be too useful. 

Multiple classes had a pathfinder skill, including the Trickster class. But 
I soon learned the Compensated Anarchist had the next best thing. 

“What’s this Escape Plan skill?” 

Mordecai nodded, looking it over. “Odd. It looks like it’s an old skill, 
but I’ve never come across it before. You learn something new every day. It 
shows hidden doors more readily, but more importantly, there’s a secret 
benefit.” Mordecai grunted. “You can thank your cat for this one. It says it 
offers access to the Dungeon Locator, but it doesn’t say what that is or how 
to access it. Luckily for you, I do know how to find and read it. Before, I 
wouldn’t have been able to tell you.” 

“What is it?” 

“At every major intersection of the dungeon is a concealed map legend 
that intelligent and wandering mobs can utilize. It gives a very general 
overview of what’s in every direction. You know how at the zoo there’s 
arrows that say, ‘Monkeys this way, lions that way?’ It’s the same concept. 
It'll point you toward exits and city bosses and so forth. It’s not quite as 
good as the pathfinder skill, which basically opens up the map in a very 
wide area, but this might be even more useful in some ways.” 

“Okay, what about this Naughty Boys Employment Agency?” 

He shrugged. “I have no idea what that is. It sounds like a quest-giving 
guild.” 

“And the subclasses? It says I have to pick one on the sixth floor.” 


“We can’t see what they are yet. It’s pretty rare that you’re required to 
choose one, but I’ve seen it a few times. You’ll likely have to specialize 
further in one of the three skills. Bombs, traps, or hand-to-hand.” 

“Okay, then,” I said after a moment. “So what do you think?” 

“If you were in a more well-rounded party, Pd tell you to go with the 
Prizefighter class,” Mordecai said. “If you were in an even larger group, I’d 
suggest the Bomb Squad. All three of those are good. The Compensated 
Anarchist is potentially the best, but like with your race, it requires a lot of 
work. You’re going to need to grind and grind and focus on gaining as 
much experience as possible. With these shortened timers, it’s going to be a 
lot harder.” 

I grinned. “I guess it’s a good thing we now have a group member who 
knows what he’s doing.” 

Mordecai narrowed his eyes at me as I scrolled down and picked 
Compensated Anarchist as my class. 


I next had to figure out my stats. Donut ended up with the following: 

Strength: 20 

Intelligence: 23 + 5 (Tiara) +1 (Charm) = 29 

Constitution: 4 + 2 (Brush) = 6 

Dexterity: 12 + 2 (Crupper) +2 (Bracelet) +5 (temp. floor bonus) = 
21 

Charisma: 70 

Her strength had taken a minus three hit, but her dexterity had risen by 
four, her constitution by two, and her charisma by another single point 
thanks to her cat racial choice. Her constitution was still worryingly low. 
Finding items to get that up would be one of our first priorities. 

She’d only gained a net of four stat points by choosing the cat race, but 
she had received a ton of new skills. Night Vision, Slash Attack, Cat-like 
Reflexes, and a benefit called 9 Lives. 

The 9 Lives benefit was similar to her Cockroach skill, but it wasn’t as 
good. It halved the damage received for the first nine physical attacks she 
received per day. That was helpful, especially considering her low 


Constitution. But if we were going to be facing super powerful monsters, a 
half attack would still likely cut her in half. 

She eventually awakened. “What’d I miss? Did you grow elf ears?” She 
looked me up and down. “You’re still human. That’s boring.” 

“Tm not human. I’m a Primal.” 

“Is that like a caveman?” She made a show of sniffing me. “You smell 
the same.” 

“If you had remained awake, you would have learned what all this 
meant.” 

She shrugged and stretched. Mongo yawned loudly, also stretching. He 
made a purring noise that sounded suspiciously cat-like. 

I was going to have to continue to be the party’s tank. I received three 
stat points on level-up, and I had a pool of 36 points, though more than half 
of them were chosen for me thanks to the class’s minimums. After 
everything settled, I ended up with the following: 

Strength: 10 + 3 (toe ring) = 13 +3 (When Gauntlet Formed) 

Intelligence: 5 

Constitution: 10 + 4 (shirt) +1 (ring) +2 (ring) +2 (boxers) = 19 

Dexterity: 10 + 1 (Gauntlet) = 11 

Charisma: 25 

Pd given myself enough Intelligence to read that Wisp Armor spellbook, 
but I didn’t do it quite yet. I was still on the fence about using it for myself, 
giving it to Donut, or selling it. I wanted to see what its actual monetary 
value was first. The Fear spell I now had cost three points to cast. 

I wasn’t too happy yet with this build. Donut was still way more 
powerful than me. For the hundredth time in as many seconds, I wondered 
if I was an idiot for choosing this path. I’d been forced to spend a ton on 
Charisma. The stat was mostly useless, especially since Donut was already 
deity-like with hers. I was going to have to level as quickly as possible. In 
my head, I originally was hoping for much more Strength and Constitution. 
From now on, all my points were going to go into those two until their base 
was at least 20. 

Donut had ended up with a skillset that allowed her to pretty much 
make it up as she went along. My chosen path required very deliberate 
planning and rigorous training. But if I managed to excel—and survive—I 
could mold myself into something very powerful. Was I an idiot? I knew 
some people would definitely think so. 


“Only one thing is going to make this work,” Mordecai said. It seemed 
as if he’d been reading my mind. 

“Training?” I asked. 

“No,” he said. “Money. And lots of it. Come on. Let’s go outside.” He 
started buttoning his tuxedo shirt back up. “Where did I put that tie? Oh, 
there it is.” 

“Wait, you can leave your room?” 

“Of course I can leave my room. I’m your manager now. Plus I have to 
present you two. It’s part of the whole deal.” He straightened his bow tie 
and rubbed the front of his jacket. 

“Technically you’re my manager,” Donut grumbled. Mongo screeched. 

That was actually a good point, but neither Mordecai nor I wanted to 
broach that subject just yet. He ignored it for now. “I’m not allowed to 
directly fight with you, but I can still occasionally step outside. Especially 
on the urban levels. Let’s go. I’m going to present you, and then I need to 
show you something. Carl first, then Donut and Mongo.” 

All of us stood and lined up at the door. He opened it with a flourish. 

When we’d entered the room, we’d been in a long, golden hallway with 
tall walls. But now, spread before us was a bustling village with dozens of 
creatures of all types walking about. The stench of sulfur and smoke filled 
the polluted air. Dozens of medieval-style shops filled the area. The ground 
appeared to be made of wooden slats with wide spaces in some areas. 
Smoke drifted lazily from the holes. Above, on the fake ceiling, a blazing 
red sun rose, filling the area with a crimson-hued light. 

Mordecai looked out at the village. None of the denizens gave him any 
heed. He waved for me to step outside, and I did. My feet echoed on the 
slats. The temperature out here was much higher than the previous level. 

“Pd like to present Dungeon Crawler Carl, the Level 13 Compensated 
Anarchist Primal. Welcome, Carl, to the third floor.” 


OceanofPDF:.com 


“THIS IS CALLED THE OVER CITY,” MORDECAI SAID AS WE WALKED ALONG 
the wooden street. My minimap was awash in the white dots of NPCs. 
Mordecai’s dot had turned to a yellow star. A few blue dots of other 
crawlers were scattered about, but not many. “Where you exited the second 
floor has no bearing on where you enter this floor. It is completely random, 
so you will now be mixed in with crawlers from around the world.” 

“So Brandon and crew could be anywhere?” I asked. “How big is this 
place?” 

Donut sat on my shoulder and Mongo stood on her back, like we were a 
goddamned vaudeville act. With my increased strength, I barely felt their 
presence. Many of the NPCs stopped and gawked at us as we passed. Most 
of the NPCs in this area were humanoid dwarves, but a mix of regular 
humans and orcs and elf-like creatures also walked about. All wore 
medieval-style clothing. Larger, armored guards with obscured faces also 
strolled about. 

“Yes, they could be anywhere,” Mordecai said. “Their location is based 
on the location of their game guide. You can talk to them directly, but they 
probably don’t know where they are in relation to you. They had someone 
called Mistress Tiatha as their guide. I don’t know her that well, but I can 
try to figure out where she is if you’d like.” 

“Is this one giant city?” 

He nodded. “The Over City levels are a tradition in Dungeon Crawler 
World. There are hundreds of small, scattered villages surrounded by wide 
swaths of abandoned city. It’s all connected. As far as you’re concerned, 
these urban areas appear every three levels.” He stomped his foot on the 


rickety ground. “Most of this is just window dressing. You’re still below the 
surface of your planet. That isn’t really the sky of some distant world. There 
isn’t really a massive volcano under our feet.” 

“Volcano?” I asked, looking down. 

“We’ll get to that. Think of this as a stage set for the benefit of the 
viewers. This and all the following floors will be significantly smaller than 
the first two, with the exception of the ninth floor. This one is probably 
about the size of the state of Arizona. About 300,000 square kilometers. 
Most of that is the ruins.” 

“What about these NPCs?” I asked. 

A pair of dwarven girls, no older than teenagers, were practically 
swooning at the sight of Mordecai. They said something, trying to get his 
attention. He growled at them, and they scattered, giggling. 

“Oh, they’re very real. They are living, biological creatures similar to 
some of the mobs. Most have been engineered by the Borant Corporation, 
and therefore are owned by the Borant Corporation. This is the only world 
they know and have ever known.” 

“That’s really fucked up. Do they know what they are?” 

“Their minds are altered every time they are regenerated. The next time 
this floor is formed on some distant planet, these NPCs will wake up like it 
is just another day. But they will have also been changed, planted with false 
memories. Inconvenient memories—like some crawler sitting them down 
and explaining to them that they’re props on an intergalactic television 
series—will be erased. Take those goblins you told me about, for instance. 
They were addicted to meth. They were fighting the llamas over it. That 
storyline didn’t exist in the previous season. That was added for this world 
and this world only. Next time they’ll be addicted to solar berry extract or 
something like that. Or they’ Il be fanatics of some god. Or something else.” 

“What the hell?” I asked. That was just as bad, and in some ways worse, 
than what they were doing to me and my fellow humans. “But these are still 
living creatures? How is that legal?” 

“Borant created them, so they own them. One can’t alter the memories 
of naturals. People who were born in a natural biological process. Not 
unless they sign away their rights.” 

“And people are okay with this?” 

“Most are. The galaxy, as a whole, has plenty of other things to worry 
about. The rules regarding this stuff are pretty strict, almost as strict as 


those regarding Als. These biologically printed mobs and NPCs are not 
allowed to exist outside of a Syndicate-monitored production. Using them 
for any purpose other than sanctioned entertainment is highly illegal. It’s 
basically considered a war crime.” 

“So, there are no intergalactic brothels filled with genetically- 
engineered women?” 

Mordecai grimaced. “Not legal ones. But there is one place where such 
things do exist legally.” He pointed down. 

“But you said...” The realization struck me. “Oh, so the deeper floors?” 

“That’s right,” Mordecai said. “This third floor won’t have any tourists 
on it. Most of them are on the 18th floor. It’s like a billionaire’s luxury 
retreat. The galaxy’s rich and elite congregate on the 18th floor to party and 
gamble and satiate their most base desires.” 

“I don’t understand,” I said. “I assumed the 18th floor would be hell on 
earth filled with dragons and lightning giants and shit. What would happen 
if a crawler managed to get there?” 

“Nobody ever has,” Mordecai said. “So, I don’t know. The same with 
the 15th floor. Borant and the system AI are required to have a plan in 
place, but nobody has ever gotten that deep, so nobody knows. That sort of 
thing is way above my pay grade.” 

As we walked, we passed multiple shops and guildhalls and inns. The 
inns were listed as Saferooms on my minimap. 

Mordecai spent some time explaining class and skill guildhalls. Donut 
and I both could train at Rogue guildhalls. Donut also had access to Bard 
halls, and I would have access to Fighter halls. Sometimes there would be 
special halls for certain races, too. He said he’d never seen a Primal hall, 
but it was possible it existed. Quadrupeds generally didn’t have halls. 

We reached the end of the street where a small fence had been erected. 
A pair of the well-armored guards stood by a small gate about as high as my 
waist. The two guards were decked head-to-toe in plate mail, and I couldn’t 
tell what sort of creatures they were, only that they were bulky and tall. 
Each was armed with a long, steel blade. I examined one. 

Village Guard Swordsman — Level 75 

Everyone likes the strong, silent type. In order to find out what’s 
underneath that helmet, you’ll have to first kill the guard. Go ahead 
and give it a try. I double dog dare you. 


Village Guards are tasked with protecting the population centers of 
the third floor from the creatures who roam the Over City Ruins. They 
are only on duty when the sun is up, so don’t go whining to them for 
help when it’s dark. 

The guard was unmoving. He stood there like a statue. 

“He’s kind of scary,” Donut said as we paused at the gate. 

“Don’t mess with the guards,” Mordecai said. “Don’t attack the NPCs. 
Don’t try to rob the stores. Don’t get drunk and pass out in the streets. 
There is no jail here. Only the death penalty. If you run afoul of the guards, 
don’t try to fight them. They are slow, but there are a lot of them. Run from 
them and into the ruins. They won’t follow you there. You will never be 
able to return to that particular village.” 

Beyond the gate were more buildings, but they were decrepit and 
abandoned, made of crumbling, moss-covered bricks slumping in on 
themselves. A rolling fog obscured the distance, but even in the shadows of 
the fog I could see faint buildings of all shapes and sizes. 

“Okay,” Mordecai said, indicating the area beyond the gate. “The ruins. 
It’s the same as the dungeon, but it’s all old, rotting buildings, abandoned 
and overgrown parks and so forth. There’s this whole storyline about the 
existence of the city. It’s all based on a children’s story that never made it 
into your earth’s culture. Basically, there’s this massive, dormant volcano, 
and a magical world existed solely inside of the volcano. That world 
consisted of six layers. The very top layer is where we are now, the Over 
City. It is where most of the people lived. A great monster lived at the 
bottom of the volcano and breathed out poison gas one day and killed or 
transformed 90% of the volcano world. The descendants of the survivors 
live in these villages. The resulting monsters live in the ruins.” 

“That’s quite morbid,” Donut said. 

“So, we’re on top of a volcano right now? In the game's story, I mean?” 
I asked. 

“Yes. This floor is supposed to span the length of the volcano’s crater.” 

“What’s the next level down?” I asked. 

“For you, the fourth level is just a random dungeon level. Same with the 
fifth. But the sixth floor is also part of this volcano city storyline. For the 
NPCs here, it is the next level down. It is called the Hunting Grounds. It’s 
another urban level with similar villages, though the villages are much 
bigger, and the original residents were much wealthier. The ruins are jungle- 


like and filled with vines. And it’s the first level where brave and insane 
tourists can go to hunt crawlers. Not too many do it because it’s both 
expensive and dangerous. There are no protections for the hunters. They’re 
in real danger from both the mobs and the crawlers, and every season a 
handful of rich dumbasses get themselves killed.” 

“What about gods?” 

“That’s a whole different thing, and those don’t appear until the fourth 
floor. P1 explain that later. For now, you need to get to work.” 

“Okay,” I said, turning back to the village. “There are shops here. 
Should we go shopping now? And should we open our boxes now?” 

“Yes, shopping,” Donut said. “Definitely shopping.” 

“Not here,” Mordecai said. “This is a small village. These shops are 
overpriced and will gouge you and won’t buy any of your items. You need 
to get yourself to a larger settlement, and there’s very little time.” He 
pointed east. “See that wider road there? Follow it for about a half day, and 
you’ ll come across a bigger village. It will have better, richer shops.” 

“How do you know?” I asked. 

Mordecai pointed at a discolored rock on the ground just outside the 
gate. “Focus on that, and select the tooltip that pops up.” 

I did as he asked. “Holy shit,” I said a minute later. 

A holographic sign popped up, growing out of the ground like a tree. It 
showed arrows with signs and distances in kilometers. Pointing north along 
the main road it read, “Medium Sized Skyfowl Settlement. 34 Kilometers.” 
There were other signs, too, pointing to saferooms, restrooms, and most 
importantly, stairs. The closest set of stairs was six kilometers away. 

“There are saferooms in the ruins? We don’t have to rely on the 
villages? And do the villages have names?” 

“Yes. The saferooms and restrooms will be scattered the same as before. 
There will not be tutorial guilds in the ruins. Only in the villages. Not that it 
matters as Pll teleport to the saferooms anyway. Also, the villages don’t 
have names. The system designates them as tiny, small, medium, large, and 
extra-large. Not very exciting. This one is small. You can actually name 
them yourself if you manage to kill the mayor. Don’t bother, at least on this 
floor. You’ll likely end up dead, and it doesn’t come with any real benefits 
when the timer is only eight days.” 

“Okay,” I said. “So, I guess we’ll grind our way to that other village.” 


He nodded. “Make sure you check out the signs every once in a while to 
make sure you’re still on the correct track. All medium villages on this floor 
will have a tutorial guild. Meet me there. When you get there, we’ll hit 
some shops together.” 

“Will the monsters be a lot harder on this floor?” 

“Oh yeah,” Mordecai said, grinning sheepishly. “I should probably tell 
you this part. It’s hard to remember without my checklist. There is night and 
there is day on this floor. There will always be monsters in the ruins. They 
are more dangerous at night. The daytime ones should be cake for you two, 
but you might want to keep Mongo back at first. Don’t go out at night until 
I say you’re ready. The villages will always be safe during the day. At night, 
only the village main roads are safe. Usually. The alleys will be very 
dangerous. In some cases, more dangerous than the ruins.” He flapped his 
incubus wings a few times and looked directly at me. “Stay away from girls 
with horns on their heads. Your charisma is a lot higher than it was before, 
and they are attracted to that. They will be coming out of the woodwork at 
you. Work on your punching skills, and use that new Fear spell every single 
fight. Remember to stop at a saferoom to open your boxes and so Donut can 
get her next spellbook from the book of the floor club.” 

“T forgot about that!” Donut said. 

Mordecai turned and started walking back into the village. He was 
making a beeline straight for a pub. He called over his shoulder, “Don’t stop 
at the first saferoom you find, though. Give it at least two hours. Maybe 
four. And Donut, keep working on that Magic Missile spell. You’re almost 
at skill level 10. PII be on chat if you need me.” 

“If I had known he was going to be so bossy, I wouldn’t have picked 
that Manager benefit,” Donut muttered. 

“Shut up, Donut,” I said under my breath as I lifted the latch to the 
small gate that led out into the ruins. It opened with a noisy screech. The 
two guards didn’t move a muscle. We wandered out into the streets, leaving 
the safety of the village behind. 


OceanofPDF:.com 


Views: 371.5 Trillion 
Followers: 7.8 Trillion 
Favorites: 1.1 Trillion 


DONUT WORKED ON MONGO’S TRAINING WHILE WE WALKED ALONG THE 
road. I pulled a stick from my inventory and tossed it. She was working on 
getting him to stay put until she told him to go fetch it. He was about 80% 
of the way there already. The problem was when he got too excited, he 
absolutely refused to listen to orders. 

Donut stopped at the first restroom we found. She went inside, and the 
little dinosaur went berserk at the door, attacking and scratching at it and 
screaming at the top of his lungs until Donut came out. 

“You need to learn patience, Mongo!” Donut said. “Follow mommy’s 
example.” 

“Yeah, because you’re known for your patience,” I said. 

I marveled at the ceiling as we walked. It was much, much higher here 
than it’d been in the hallway. Some of these buildings were four stories tall. 
In the smoky distance, some were even taller than that. But I could still tell 
the sky was but an illusion. Lights reflected off it oddly, revealing the 
facade. 

Zev: Hello, hello. 

Donut: HI ZEV! 


Zev: Hi Donut! Good news, you two. Odette’s show was another hit. 
But more importantly, the majority of viewers are giving thumbs up to 
your choices for class and race. A few people have expressed confusion 
as to why Donut chose Artist Alley as this floor’s selection, but 
generally people like the idea of the Former Child Actor class. A couple 
people are grumbling that it doesn’t allow for growth, but most seem to 
believe it’s offset by Carl picking something that requires such rigorous 
training. Also, so far both of you have picked unique classes. Nobody 
else out there has chosen them. That’s always a plus. There are a few 
other Primals out there, but not many. No straight cats, though 
someone chose a were-cat race. And there are a few cat girls walking 
around. It’s still early. A lot of crawlers haven’t picked yet. 

Donut looked absolutely scandalized. I laughed. 

Carl: Good to know, Zev. Question. Can people see Mordecai now? 

Zev: No, not generally. They know you have a manager, and they 
got to see him when he introduced you into the world. But from now 
on, it’s how it was before. By the way, I checked, and no VIP crawlers 
are nearby as far as I can tell. Pd avoid adding any of the close-by 
locals to your party. They’re all too boring. 

Donut: WHAT IS THE NEXT SHOW WE ARE GOING ON? 

Zev: So, this floor is eight days. I’m still in negotiations with a few 
programs. It’ll likely be during the fourth night, but I haven’t locked in 
an interview yet. I’ve had to take in a few extra people just to field all 
the interview requests. 

Carl: Okay, thank you Zev. 

Zev: Ta-ta for now. 

Donut: BYE ZEV! 

“What is a cat girl?” Donut asked. “I don’t like that. And a were-cat? 
Whoever that is needs to just learn to commit.” 

“Watch out,” I cried, jumping back. The knife bounced off my chest, 
clattering harmlessly to the ground. I looked up at the creature who’d 
thrown the blade, a monkey wearing a painted human skull as a mask. 

Former Circus Lemur — Level 8 

Grimaldi’s Traveling Circus was one of the Over City’s favorite 
attractions before that fateful day so long ago. Hundreds of years later, 
the feral and transformed descendants of that circus still stalk the 
ruins, seeking out adults and children alike to dazzle and entertain. 


And by dazzle and entertain, we mean devour the flesh from their 
bones and use their remains as armor. 

Grimaldi’s Amazing Juggling Lemurs were one of the circus’s key 
attractions. Children from all over the realm would laugh and clap as 
they watched these funny little creatures juggle all manner of items, 
from balls to pins to knives. 

You can probably guess where this is going. 

The red-furred monkey thing—apparently a lemur—was wearing a 
black and red-painted human skull as a mask. It’d appeared in the second- 
floor window of a dilapidated building. It was just sitting on the window 
ledge, little legs dangling off. He hadn’t appeared as a dot on my minimap 
until after he’d thrown the knife, which he’d tossed directly at my head. 
Luckily the knife flew low and hit me in the chest, bouncing off my jacket 
thanks to my cloak’s anti-piercing benefit. 

“Oh fuck,” I cried as four more lemurs appeared in the window. Donut 
and I jumped into an alley as more knives sliced through the air. Two of 
them embedded in the wooden floorboards. 

Mongo screeched in rage, and Donut yelled for the dinosaur not to rush 
out into the street. 

I prepared a smoke bomb as I examined the map, figuring out the best 
way to get to them. There were no windows facing the alley, but they’d 
figure out where we were in a minute. An unsettling, throaty roar filled the 
streets, followed by an answering call from several blocks down. There was 
a lot more than just five of them. I put the smoke bomb away and pulled 
one of my boom jugs. 

Admin Notice. A new tab is available in your interface. Quests. 

“The hell?” I said. 

A musical chime, like trumpets blaring, filled the air. It only lasted a 
second. Sparkles and illusionary streamers danced at the edges of my 
vision. 

New Quest. The Show Must Go On. 

The words appeared spinning in the air, slamming into place in front of 
me, like the title of an old-school television special. Sparkles cascaded off 
the word “Quest.” 

You’ve discovered the remnants of an ancient circus. Hundreds of 
years after the toxic cloud that devastated the Over City, this traveling 
circus endures. But instead of joy and laughter and cotton candy, it 


now delivers devastation and pain. Their cotton candy is probably 
really gross by now, too. Find out why this circus still exists and put an 
end to its reign of terror. 

Reward: You will receive a Gold Quest Box. 

“What the fuck is this?” I said. “A quest?” Mordecai had mentioned 
quests once or twice, but we’d never talked about them. 

Carl: Mordecai. We just walked into a quest. Should we stay here 
and try to figure it out? 

Mordecai: You should try to figure out your face. 

Carl: What? 

Mordecai: Mom loved him more. Well, who’s the dead one now? 
I’m glad that cat used her ashes as a bathroom. 

“What’s wrong with Mordecai?” Donut asked. 

Carl: Are you drunk? It’s been like 15 minutes! 

Mordecai: Did you know incubi have a very low tolerance for... 

Carl: Mordecai? 

He didn’t answer. 

“Shit. It looks like we’re doing this on our own,” I said. We couldn’t 
stay here. I pointed across the street to the next alley down. There was a 
safe room about three blocks over. “Get ready to run.” 

I jumped from around the corner. My plan was to try to toss it through 
the window, but I now saw multiple lemurs on the building’s roof. I added a 
bit of extra oompf to the toss, arcing it high. I pulled myself back into the 
alley and crouched low as more knives slammed into the ground. The jug 
detonated, and the building against my back shuddered. High-pitched, 
frenzied screams rose, and I could feel the heat from the building. 

A flaming lemur leaped from above and landed in the alley. I punted it, 
and it flew across the street, flying way further than I expected. It cracked 
into the stone wall of a building. Behind us, more flaming lemurs started to 
fall from the roof. 

“Run,” I cried. 

We rushed from the alley, crossing the street. Multiple red dots appeared 
behind us. The entire top of the now-engulfed building was filled with the 
X’s of dead lemurs. 

“Goddamnit, Mongo,” I cried at the little dinosaur as he broke away and 
headed right for the now-dead lemur I’d punted. He screeched, jumping 
through the air, legs first and executed a perfect pounce onto the corpse. 


The dinosaur growled with glee as scorched lemur fur went flying. I altered 
course to grab him. 

The dino chicken howled in rage as I scooped him up. A knife bounced 
off the bricks, inches from my head. I hazarded a look over my shoulder, 
and I stopped dead at the sight. 

A giraffe. A goddamned giraffe ran down the street at us. 

The giant animal was covered in lemurs who clung onto its neck like it 
was a tree trunk. The giraffe was about a block away. It bent, then flipped, 
its neck, flinging a dozen of the lemurs into the air in our direction. One of 
the little monkey things was flung too high, and he bounced off the rocky 
ceiling with a crunch. He plummeted to the ground, smashing into the 
wooden street. 

The remaining lemurs screamed as they flew, brandishing shining 
knives as more knives flew at us from the windows of the now-burning 
building. I ducked, but most of the blades clattered onto the street, flung 
from too far away. The giraffe-riding lemurs landed and pulled more knives 
from bandoliers draped across their shoulders. They bounded sideways 
toward us, howling in a deep, guttural screech. 

“Control your damn chicken!” I cried, dropping Mongo to the ground as 
I pulled a smoke bomb. I lit it and dropped it as we turned down the alley 
and fled. We rushed to the next street over and crossed, then entered another 
alleyway, this one much tighter than the last. 

“Mongo, follow!” Donut cried as she leaped to my shoulder. She landed 
backward and fired a pair of magic missiles. Mongo screeched and flapped 
his little arms, but he kept up with us, running along my left side. 

This next street, the last one before the saferoom, held a single red dot 
in the center. I pulled another smoke bomb and tossed it ahead of me. 

“Hit it with a missile as we cross!” 

Smoke filled the street ahead of us, but it caught on a breeze, blowing in 
the wrong direction. Shit. These things suck. At the last moment, I 
remembered Mordecai’s advice that I use my Fear spell as much as 
possible. 

We rushed into the street, and I cast Fear just as Donut shot a full- 
powered magic missile. My breath caught in my throat at the sight of the 
creature. 

Warning: scary-ass mobs are immune to Fear effects. 


My first impression was Slender Man. Slender Man dressed as a clown. 
Holy shit. 

Donut’s missile flew low, but I realized that was on purpose. She hit it 
in the leg, and it toppled over. As the clown creature fell, its description 
popped up. 

Terror the Clown — Level 10 

It’s okay if you just pissed yourself. You wouldn’t be the first. 

Standing just over 11 feet tall, the clown-on-stilts was always a 
favorite amongst the snot-nosed kiddos visiting Grimaldi’s three-ring 
circus. Now, ravaged by time and the curse of the Over City, the once- 
affable stilt-clowns have been transformed into tall, blood-thirsty 
monstrosities who want nothing more than to make balloon animals out 
of your intestines. 

The monster was humanoid, but with splotchy, bone-white white skin, 
no eyes or nose, and a red, tooth-filled mouth that was much too large. It 
wore tattered and bloody clown clothes over its emaciated frame. Its extra- 
long arms hung almost to the ground. It held a giant butcher knife in each 
hand. It wore a red, curly-haired wig and a little hat with a flower. 

Donut had shot it directly below the knee. It flew onto its back, 
throwing a massive red shoe into the air. Blood gushed from the wound. 
The place she’d hit should have been a stilt, but it appeared the monster’s 
legs actually were that long. 

A health bar appeared, but the magic missile had only taken about 20% 
of its health. 

After a quick glance of the minimap—the lemurs were still a block 
away—lI sprinted toward the monster as Donut pumped it with two more 
missiles. 

“Watch its arms!” I cried as I formed a fist. Donut leaped from my 
shoulder. 

“Sic ‘em!” she yelled as she skidded to the ground. 

Mongo and I both leaped into the air. I landed on the clown’s chest as 
Mongo screamed and started tearing at the prone clown’s ankle just above 
the shoe. 

The clown’s chest caved in with a crack as I landed. It felt as if I’d just 
crunched into a wooden pallet that had splintered under my weight. I fell to 
a knee and pulled my hand back to punch. 


Another missile crashed into the clown’s raising arm as I punched it in 
the face as hard as I could. Its neck snapped back. A long, forked tongue 
lolled out. The little hat went flying, and the red wig fell off. I pounded 
again and again until its head caved in. 

A mass of red dots was getting closer, and they’d be here in fifteen 
seconds. I pulled up the clown’s inventory: 

Clown Meat 

Big Top Ticket 

35 Gold. 

I looted it all, plus both of the oversized butcher knives, the red wig, and 
the little hat. Mongo remained at the clown’s ankle, tearing at the skin and 
growling like a dog with a bone. I bent to pick him up, and I realized he’d 
gotten noticeably larger. I picked him up anyway, and he squealed in rage. I 
put him back down a foot away. 

“Tell him to follow us,” I said as I turned toward the next alley. “Hurry.” 

“Mongo, come!” Donut cried. 

This alley curved into a small labyrinth, dotted with doors and stone 
walls. The saferoom appeared to be a tavern about fifty meters down a 
dead-end alley. A sign hung in front of the tavern, naming it “The Belly- 
Rubbed Pug.” A pug in a top hat and a suit appeared on the sign. I 
wotriedly watched the wave of red dots swarm into the main street as I 
pushed open the door and ran inside. 


Unlike the saferooms from the previous two floors, this appeared to actually 
be some sort of renaissance fair-style pub. The three television screens 
remained, and the general layout was similar to the manned saferooms. A 
Bopca protector stood behind the counter, looking at us with curiosity as we 
entered. 

The first thing I noticed was that the sleeping rooms—there were only 
five available—now cost money to rent. Ten gold a night, which was 
nothing. Between Donut and I, we now had almost ten grand in gold. The 
food cost money as well, but it appeared to be equally inexpensive. 

I kept my eye on the red dots to see if they would follow us into the 
alley. If they knew we were in here, we’d have a problem. They didn’t 


appear to have seen where we’d gone. 

I moved to the counter to order a drink. I needed one bad. 

Thwum. 

Mordecai teleported into the room, standing just to the side of the main 
bar. He stood with his pants down to his knees, eyes closed. “Now ladies,” 
he said, his voice slurring heavily. “One at a time. Grannie first. There’s 
plenty of Mordecai to...” He trailed off. He opened an eye, looking upon 
us. 

“My good sir, I must ask you sheath your sword immediately!” the 
Bopca cried. “This is a family establishment!” 

I glanced over at the gnome. His name was Gordo. 

Mordecai quickly pulled up his pants. He was still in his tuxedo, but the 
tie and jacket were gone. His barbed tail got caught on the edge of his belt, 
and he couldn’t pull them up all the way. He awkwardly fed the tail through 
the pants and fastened himself. He stood there, swaying. I could smell the 
alcohol wafting off of him. 

It’d been twenty minutes since we left him. Twenty minutes. 

“You weren’t supposed to go to a saferoom for a couple more hours,” 
Mordecai said. He wagged his finger. “If this is going to work, you need to 
listen to your manager.” 

Mordecai stumbled and held out his hands, balancing like he was 
standing on a surfboard. “Where did those two girls and their grandma go?” 

Then he vomited on the floor, sat in it, and passed out. 

Gordo leaned over the counter and made a face. “This is your 
manager?” 


“Yep,” I said. 
He shook his head sadly. “You two are so dead.” 
“Yep,” I said. 


OceanofPDF.com 


MONGO HAD RISEN TO LEVEL THREE AND ALMOST DOUBLED IN SIZE. HE was 
going to be a very bright and colorful monster when he was done growing. 
His pink-hued feathers grew longer and thicker along his little arms, mixing 
in with a line of deep-red feathers. His tail also grew longer, making him 
appear more dinosaur-like and less like poultry. The skin around his eyes 
took in a bluish tone. His beak had widened and grown larger, too. A nose 
chomp from him now could do serious damage. 

“They grow up so fast,” Donut said sadly. “He’s too big to sit on my 
back now.” 

“Pretty soon you’re going to be able to sit on his back,” I said. I knew 
the real version of these things on earth weren’t as big as they were in the 
movies, but I could tell already that the game was growing Mongo toward a 
more cinematic, crowd-pleasing size. 

While Mordecai snored loudly in a pile of his own vomit, Donut and I 
opened our boxes. We each had a Silver Earth box. We also both received a 
couple random achievements. I had no additional loot boxes, but Donut had 
a gold pet box she hadn’t yet opened. The most notable new achievement 
was for stumbling upon our first quest. 

New achievement! It’s Elementary, My Dear Crawler! 

And you thought all you had to do was bonk monsters on the head. 

You’ve received a quest! Puzzles and intrigue and mysteries, oh my! 
If you want to survive in this world, you’re going to need to be more 
than just a pretty, sword-swinging barbarian. Some quests require 
brute strength, yes, but sometimes you also gotta use your noggin. 

Reward: We don’t want you getting bored. That’s your prize. 


That was interesting. If there was some sort of mystery involved, I 
wondered if it required us actually talking to people. If that was the case, 
Donut’s astronomical Charisma was going to be valuable. 

Donut opened up her earth box and gasped. 

She’d received three items. Two were unopened boxes that appeared to 
be from Amazon.com: a scented candle and a large-sized cat tree with 
multiple scratching posts and platforms and a round cat hammock. It was 
larger and fancier than the one she’d had in our apartment. I would have to 
put it together myself. The candle was labeled “Sea Breeze” but smelled 
nothing like the sea. 

The third item was a potion. An Earth Hobby Potion. I read the 
description. 

Earth Hobby Potion. 

Per subsection 1256-C of the Indigenous Species Protection Act, this 
particular reward is required by the Syndicate Government to be awarded 
to all Crawlers who have chosen a domestic class. 

Taking this potion is optional, however it may not be sold or 
transferred to other Crawlers or entities. 

Upon drinking this, you will immediately obtain a Level Three skill 
ability in a unique, Earth-based hobby. The benefit is chosen at 
random, however you will not receive a skill that you currently have. 

Gods, I hate it when the lawyers make me put their crap into the 
descriptions. Don’t you? Anyway, this could be something useful like 
Parkour or Jui-jitsu, or you could get fucked and receive some useless 
crap like Stamp Collecting or Kombucha Brewing. Don’t get your 
hopes up. The fact your planet was filled with so many boring assholes 
with inane, ridiculous hobbies tips the scales way out of your favor. 

I laughed. Why would something like this be required? What would be 
the purpose? Was it some bureaucratic attempt at preserving Earth culture? 
It didn’t make sense, yet at the same time it reminded me of some bullshit 
the military would enact. 

In the gold pet box, Donut received a black, magical collar for Mongo 
that placed his orange dot on the map wherever he was. He screamed and 
tried to rip it off, but after a few admonishments from Donut, he relented 
and stopped scratching at it. 

In a dark corner of the saferoom stood a mailbox, and Donut went to 
retrieve her spellbook. She pulled it out. “This sounds positively delicious,” 


she said. She glowed as she applied the book to herself. 

“I swear to god, Donut,” I said. “You better have read the description 
first.” 

“Oh, relax, Carl. Watch.” She waved her paw, and Mongo, who was 
currently running in circles around the prone form of Mordecai, suddenly 
split into three. Now there were three of them running in circles. One of the 
forms squeaked in concern, jumped up on the counter and started growling 
at the other two forms. A moment later, the other two also jumped on the 
table. The first one cried out in fear and ran, running to hide behind Donut. 
The other two looked at one another then jumped down and resumed 
circling Mordecai like a pair of sharks. 

“Please tell me that’s an illusion,” I said. The two new Mongos were 
physically mirror images, but they weren’t moving like exact duplicates. 
Each one seemed to have a mind of its own. 

“They’re real!” Donut said, “Isn’t it great? They only last for a minute! 
It’s an expensive spell, too. It costs 26 points.” 

Sure enough, the two little dinosaurs stopped running after a moment. 
They looked at each other, and then they fell apart, revealing little gears and 
servos and electric parts. The clockwork pieces disappeared in a puff of 
smoke a moment later. 

“Tt’s called Clockwork Triplicate. Isn’t it great? I can only cast it on pets 
and minions, though. So no clockwork Carl.” 

The real Mongo squeaked with concern at the two little black piles of 
ash on the floor. 

“That is a good spell. You’ll want to practice with that one. You’ve 
grown a decent catalog,” I said, looking over her spell list. 

Donut’s spells currently were 

Heal — Level 1 (Max) 

Torch — Level 10 

Magic Missile — Level 9 

Puddle Jumper — Level 3 

Second Chance — Level 5 

Heal Critter — Level 1 

Clockwork Triplicate — Level 1 

I hadn’t realized her Torch spell had risen to level 10. She usually 
turned it on as soon as we left a saferoom, and it followed just above us for 
most of the day. She’d been adjusting the brightness on the fly when we 


were attempting to be stealthy, but I hadn’t thought about it. Most of the 
halls on the second floor had come with ambient lighting anyway. 

“Will you put my tree together?” Donut asked. “And maybe light my 
candle? Miss Beatrice used to light candles.” 

“Just a minute,” I said. I had a quick memory of Donut walking too 
close to a line of candles, and of Bea flipping out. She was always paranoid 
about the cat catching on fire, yet she had a million candles all over the 
apartment. 

I still had my own Earth box to open, which I did now. Like Donut’s, 
mine contained two random items and a Hobby potion. 

The first item was a small cactus plant in a clay pot. The short, squat 
cactus was only about three inches tall and was covered in yellow spikes. 
The pot still had a price tag on it. $3.99. Itd come from a Home Depot. 

The second item was a shrink-wrapped set of small paperback books. 

“Oh wow,” I said, turning the pack over in my hands. It was a collection 
of Louis L'Amour books. Westerns. My dad had an entire shelf of them. As 
a kid, I’d sneak one here and there and read the entire book in one night, 
hiding under the covers with a flashlight. This was a pack of 18 books, all 
from the same series. The Sackett Family Saga. I hadn’t read any of these. I 
put the books into my inventory. My hands were shaking, I realized, and I 
wasn’t sure why. 

I examined the cactus, wondering what to do with it, and why they’d 
chosen this to give to me. Both of Donut’s gifts had been deliberate. A 
candle to remind her of home and a cat tree for comfort. 

I sighed, putting the plant into my inventory. 

“So, you want to get a new hobby?” I asked. I didn’t have high hopes it 
would be anything good. 

“Okay,” Donut said. Her entire body glowed for a moment. She made a 
face. 

“Scutelliphily,” she said a moment later, pronouncing it slowly. “I 
don’t... I don’t even know what that means. I’m a scutelliphile. That sounds 
obscene. How can I have a skill in something and not know what it is? This 
makes no sense. What a waste.” 

I chuckled. “I don’t know what to tell you, Donut. It warned us the skill 
would be something stupid.” 

I put the potion in my hotlist and clicked it. A warmth spread through 
me. 


You have gained a skill! 

You are now Level 3 in the Cesta Punta skill. 

That was it. There was no other explanation. 

“Cesta Punta?” I said. Was that a martial art? I looked at my hands. I 
didn’t feel any different. 

“Was your potion worthless, too?” Donut asked. 

“I don’t know,” I said. “Maybe.” Donut was right. It was stupid and 
pointless if we didn’t know what it was. 

“Its likely the art of cracking nuts with your toes,” Donut said. She 
turned to the bopca. “Gordo, darling. Get me some walnuts. We need to 
experiment.” She laughed. 

“Of course. Right away, your majesty,” he said. He scurried into the 
back kitchen. 

This guy was even more subservient than they usually were. Her 
Charisma had rocketed up to 70. Mordecai had said while that number 
seemed crazy high, on the lower floors we were going to see and need much 
higher numbers than that just to keep our heads above water. With only 
three points per level, we needed to fight for potions and items and bonuses 
and everything we could to make those stats soar. 

Since it was one of the few spells that worked inside of a saferoom, I 
made Donut cast her new Clockwork Triplicate spell over and over. It 
currently took Donut about 20 seconds to regenerate a single mana point. 
Mongo quickly got used to having two clockwork friends suddenly 
emerging out of nowhere. He now squeaked with joy when they appeared, 
and he ran up to them. The other two also jumped up and down with 
excitement, and the three would tussle, rolling over each other, knocking 
over chairs and pouncing and jumping on tables. The tooltips over their 
heads didn’t indicate which one was the real deal. I’d quickly lose track of 
the real Mongo until the two eventually fell apart. Mongo would peep sadly 
when this happened and would run up to Donut and start screaming, 
hopping up and down demanding that she bring them back. 

“I don’t think I’m gaining experience in the spell,” Donut eventually 
said. “It should’ve gone up to level two by now.” 

“Hmm. Maybe it doesn’t count in saferooms.” I looked over at the 
snoring form of Mordecai. “It’d be nice if we had someone to ask,” I said 
loudly. I’d tried to wake him earlier, but he was out cold. 


“Should we move him so he’s not in a pile of his own vomit?” Donut 
asked. 

“Probably,” I said. “But I don’t want to touch him again.” When I tried 
waking him the first time, his tail had risen ominously, like a cobra. “The 
last thing we need is some weird incubus spell activating and your manager 
getting put in a time out. Besides, something tells me this isn’t his first 
rodeo.” 

I really didn’t feel like putting together Donut’s cat tree just yet, and I 
told her I would do it later tonight. So instead, while Donut played with 
Mongo and his clones, I spent some time fiddling with explosives. 

I needed to be doing this at a Sapper’s table, which would stop the 
dynamite from degrading and would supposedly offer more ways to work 
with the stuff. I had an idea, but I quickly gave up on it for now. I had that 
new Bomb Surgeon skill, and even though it was only level one, I could 
sense how useful it would be. I could feel the depth of the blasting cap in 
my dynamite sticks. I could feel how close a piece of dynamite was to 
prematurely going off without having to consult the description. 

Instead of dynamite, I moved my examination to my stash of goblin 
smoke bombs. The apple-sized bombs were just a bit too big for my 
slingshot, and their design didn’t really allow me to break them down. I 
wondered if I should switch to a sling. Frustrated, I put it all away. 

I had a lot of random chemicals and a load of black powder, but with 
my limited knowledge in chemistry, I didn’t have the correct combination 
of items to make what was in my head. I needed to seek out a store that sold 
explosive supplies, or better yet, find a village of hobgoblins and raid their 
stash. It seemed they had higher quality stuff than the goblins. 

We were supposed to make our way to that larger settlement before it 
got dark, but I made the executive decision to stay in the area and explore. I 
wasn’t certain when night would descend, but we still had several hours 
before the next recap episode. 

The plan was to go out there and sneak around the edges of this 
supposed circus. We would try not to poke too hard. Not until we knew 
exactly what we were dealing with. 

“Come on Donut,” I said. “Let’s go clown hunting.” 


The first thing we noticed when we edged our way outside was the group of 
three X’s on the map. These were crawlers, and they’d fallen not too far 
from where we encountered the lemurs. 

“Ah, damnit,” I said. I remembered what Zev had said about not joining 
up with any of the other crawlers in the area, and I suddenly felt guilty for 
not going to seek them out. I’d been so overwhelmed with all the newness 
of this floor, I hadn’t really thought about it. I regretted that now. 

We carefully approached the area, walking through the thin alley. 
Mongo stopped and sniffed the air. He let out a low growl. 

“Stop,” I whispered. I searched the minimap, but I didn’t see any mobs. 

Mongo was looking straight up. I followed the path of his gaze, and I 
finally saw it. A skull-headed lemur lounged on the edge of the roof. It 
hadn’t noticed us yet. 

The moment I saw him, his dot appeared on my map. These things had 
some sort of stealth ability. He was overlooking the street with the dead 
crawlers, his back to us. A trap. I could only see one lemur, but I had no 
doubt there were more. 

“Back,” I said. “Let’s go in this building and sneak up on him.” 

These buildings were nothing but the bare shells of old houses. None 
had doors or windows, just the holes where they used to be. We backtracked 
and peered inside. 

We crouched by the entrance. Mongo was being good and remained 
silent. The second floor and the roof both were made of nothing but beams 
of rotting wood, all surrounded by the stone bricks of the house. We could 
see the lemur from here, sitting idly on the edge of the roof. There were no 
Stairs or easy way for me to get up there. 

“Want me to take him out?” Donut asked. 

“We need to do it silently,” I said. My slingshot would only piss it off. 
Donut’s magic missile could be a little loud. 

“Be quiet, Mongo, and watch how Mommy does this.” 

“Wait. Goddamnit, Donut,” I hissed. 

But before I could protest further, Donut leaped into the air and landed 
on a second-floor beam. She crossed the roof, walking low. Huh, I thought. 
She’d managed to be a lot quieter than I thought she could be considering 
her... 

She jumped to the center ceiling beam, landing right behind the lemur. 


Even from here I could hear the little charm on her collar jingle as she 
landed on the roof. In this silence, it was as loud as a damn church bell. Her 
backside armor also clinked loudly onto the beam. 

Mongo, deciding he wanted in on the fun, screeched loudly. 

The lemur turned, looking over his shoulder just as Donut pounced. 

She somehow managed not to fall off the edge and into the street below. 
She slashed savagely at the creature, and he crumpled over, falling into the 
building, bouncing off one of the second-floor beams and cracking into the 
ground. Mongo rushed forward and pounced, landing hard on the not-yet- 
dead lemur. He ripped savagely at the furry monster’s stomach, unzipping 
him like he’d been trained. Mongo squeaked and shoved his head into the 
lemur’s now-open belly. 

Holy shit, I thought, rushing forward. 

Donut jumped down and sat next to her kill, looking triumphant. 

“We’re gonna need to do something about that bell of yours if you want 
to be stealthy,” I said. “You’re too fragile to do stuff like that without 
planning it out.” 

“T need to make a good example for my child, Carl.” 

“He’s not your child, Donut. He’s a pet. We don’t put our lives in danger 
for our pets.” 

I regretted it the moment the words came out of my mouth. Donut 
looked as if I’d slapped her. I suddenly felt like an enormous asshole. 

Mongo ripped off the painted skull, revealing the dead lemur’s own 
skull. 

“Ew,” Donut said, looking horrified. The look of hurt had disappeared 
just as quickly as it had come. “Carl, do you see that? It’s disgusting!” 

“Yeah, that’s really gross,” I said, happy for the quick change of subject. 

The human skull hat covered a secondary skull with a pair of bulbous, 
bloodshot eyes. The thing had no fur or skin on its head at all. It looked 
even more scary without the skull hat than it did with it. 

The lemur held a poor lemur skin and a small bandolier containing six 
throwing knives. Donut took all of them. The knives were each about the 
size of my hand with little black handles. 

“Donut, you should go back up there,” I said. “Slowly and quietly, and 
look over the street. See if you can spy any more lemurs on the roofs. Also 
see if you can tell where the main part of the circus is.” 


“No need,” Donut said. “I already looked. There’s one more lemur 
across the street, but he’s asleep. I can probably take him out with a missile 
and nobody will notice. And a few streets over, you can see the large circus 
tents. There’s a park, I think. It’s the same direction from where the giraffe 
came. I could see at least three of the giraffes walking around over there. I 
didn’t see any of the scary clowns though. Also, if you’re really quiet, you 
can hear the music from the circus.” 

I just looked at Donut. She really was growing, getting more efficient. 
Again, I felt bad for the pet comment. But at the same time, it was true, 
wasn’t it? Donut was different. She was more than a pet. 

Donut gazed down lovingly at Mongo, who’d eaten his fill. 

“You did good,” she said. “You’re almost at level four already!” 

The little dinosaur hopped up and down, waving his bloody arms and 
splattering gore everywhere. 

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s kill the guy across the street, examine the bodies 
of those crawlers out there, and then check out the circus. Sound like a plan, 
partner?” 

Donut paused and then nodded slowly. “Okay,” she said. “Partner.” 


OceanofPDF:com 


DONUT TOOK OUT THE SLEEPING LEMUR WITH A MAGIC MISSILE. WE WAITED 
five minutes to see if anything would react, but only silence followed. In 
those moments as we waited, I could hear it, the distant whisper of a 
calliope, playing slow and haunting circus music. Once I was relatively 
certain the watchers were gone, we approached the three dead crawlers. 

As we came closer, it was apparent there was enough blood and guts to 
comprise five or six crawlers. Like with the brindle grubs, the X’s 
disappeared if the bodies were significantly destroyed. It seemed there’d 
been a large-scale battle here, and I suspected they’d taken out several of 
the lemurs, too, but their bodies had already been removed. As I suspected, 
the three crawlers had been left as a trap. 

Of the three I could easily examine, two were human and one was a 
large, tree-like creature. I’d had that on my list, but I couldn’t remember the 
name. When I examined the corpse, it didn’t tell us their new races. All 
three were women. 

Corpse of Crawler Grace Bautista 3. Level 8. Killed by Former 
Circus Lemur. 

All of them appeared Asian, maybe Filipino. All had the same last 
name. All were level 8. All killed by lemurs. Grace, Nica, and Lea. None of 
them had any inventory, meaning some of their group were probably still 
alive. 

“That one, the tree lady is wearing an anklet,” Donut said. “And this 
one has two rings.” 

Sure enough, as I examined the corpses more closely, I could tell they’d 
been looted hastily. Their inventory was gone, and their weapons and armor 


appeared to have been removed, leaving them in regular street clothes—all 
except the tree woman, who was naked save for the anklet. Whatever had 
transpired here had happened quickly. These three were sisters or close 
family members, and all three had died at the same time. I shook my head. 
Fuck this game. 

The tree creature was humanoid but with a badly misshapen body. She 
was Closer to an Ent from Lord of the Rings than Groot from Guardians of 
the Galaxy. But even that comparison wasn’t correct. Her facial features 
remained human, but she’d been bent over and hunchbacked with an extra 
set of limbs erupting from her back. 

It took a few minutes to pry the anklet from her ankle, which is likely 
why they’d abandoned it. I also pulled the two rings off the fingers of the 
second one, the human named Nica. 

Both of the rings were +2 to strength. Since Donut couldn’t wear them, 
I rubbed the blood off and put them on myself, giving me a total of four 
rings. And just like that, my strength was back to an acceptable level. I 
didn’t take any joy from looting the corpses of fellow crawlers, but I now 
realized how much of an advantage it was to be in an area where other 
crawlers existed. I could see the allure of being a player killer. This game 
gave a lot of loot. 

I examined the simple anklet. It appeared to be made of wood. It had 
three little beads attached to it that clicked when I shook it, like seed pods. 
It wasn’t nearly as loud as Donut’s charm, but anything that made noise was 
a distraction. 

Enchanted Anklet of the Fallen Oak. 

Imbues wearer with +1 Dexterity, +1 Constitution, and gives +3 to 
the skill Double Tap. It’s also an anklet. One would think anklets 
enhance the beauty of feet like toe rings do, but they are excessive, 
jangly distractions that make you look too garish. 

“Let’s see if it’ll let you wear this,” I said. I suspected it would. She 
already had one bracelet wrapped around her forward leg. I could barely see 
it through all the fur. 

Donut looked at the anklet with distaste. “Wood?” she said. “What is 
this, the 70s? Anklets are for the foot model, not me.” 

The AI clearly didn’t want me wearing this thing, but I wasn’t going to 
say that out loud. “It has a constitution buff. You need it.” 


She sighed and pulled it into her inventory. “TIl put it on my back leg so 
nobody will see it.” 

It appeared in a blink, forming around her rear left ankle. It was a fourth 
the size as it was before, and it remained hidden in the tufts of fur. She 
shook her leg a few times with distaste. Thankfully the little beads barely 
made any noise. If we kept her hairbrush buff active, her Constitution was 
now seven. It was still much too low for my tastes. 

“Read the description of that Double Tap skill and tell me what it does” 
I said. 

She shrugged. “It says if I hit the monster twice in a row with the same 
attack there’s a chance the second hit does critical damage.” 

“Okay, good,” I said. “Now let’s get out of the street.” 

The closer we came to the edge of the circus, the louder the calliope 
music. The music didn’t change. It was a slow, haunting oom-pah-pah, 
oom-pah-pah of a polka played at half speed. I looked worriedly at the sun, 
which edged close to the distant rooftops. I hadn’t seen any saferooms since 
the last one. 

We hid inside of a building that overlooked the massive circus tents. 
We'd killed five sentinel lemurs on our way here. While the lazy lemurs 
were hard to spot, they also seemed easy to sneak up on as long as we 
moved slowly. Donut had killed most of them, usually allowing Mongo to 
finish them off. The little dinosaur hit level four, and now he was about the 
same size as the cat. The dinosaur quivered with anger and potential energy 
every time we approached a lemur, and sometimes the excitement was too 
much for him. He’d let out a quick screech and then clamp his beak shut, as 
if he knew he’d messed up. 

We came across a sleeping lemur sprawled out on the floor of one 
building, and it was just too much temptation for Mongo. The dinosaur 
squealed and pounced, landing onto the stomach of the lemur, who 
awakened and managed to croak before I could also jump and smash his 
skull with my foot. A lemur-laden giraffe walked down the street soon 
thereafter while we hid against the inside wall of the building. But it passed 
by, not pausing. 

Through the hole of a missing window, we now observed the circus. It 
consisted of three massive tents, multiple wagons, several cages filled with 
shadowy forms we couldn’t see, and at least a dozen other smaller tents. In 
addition to the lemurs, giraffes, and stilt clowns, we saw a few other types 


of mobs, including a group of short, fat clowns and a large, ogre-like 
creature wearing a leopard-skin leotard. The ogre had a tentacle sprouting 
from the side of his neck. 

One of the tents was flanked by a massive, faded sign that read 
“Grimaldi’s World O’ Freaks, Admission One Gold Coin. No children or 
those with weak constitutions allowed.” A line of illustrated, ten-foot-tall 
images stood on either side of the sign, showing the freaks and other 
attractions within the tent. One of them was the ogre creature with “The 
Over City’s Strongest Citizen.” written over it. 

The other illustrations were a faded mix of sideshow characters and 
attractions like “The Over City’s Fattest Woman” and “Garth, The Two- 
Headed Troglodyte” and “Tiny, The Amazing, Fire-Breathing Gnoll.” 

There was one peculiarity amongst the signs. The last of the tall 
illustrations held an image of a horned, elf-like woman covered head to toe 
in tattoos. The sign read “Tsarina Signet and Her Amazing Battle Squad.” 
But someone had painted a large circle around the poster, crossing out the 
image. “Wanted. Traitor,” was written above the sign. As we watched, one 
of the round clowns walked by, pushing a wheelbarrow that appeared to be 
filled with animal skins. He paused at the sign, zipped down his pants, and 
urinated on the poster. 

“My word, they don’t seem to like that lady,” Donut said. 

“No. No, they don’t,” I said. 

We watched for a few more minutes. The clowns and lemurs appeared 
to be hard at work, but what were they doing? The entire circus was 
surrounded by a well-worn, five-foot-high battlement made of rocks, wood, 
and bones. The clowns started draping animal skins over the barriers. A pair 
of stilt clowns pulled a wagon out into the street and started erecting what 
looked like trench warfare defenses. They dumped jack-like wooden 
structures connected to one another by circling, barbed lengths of wire. 

“They’re getting ready for a battle,” I said. 

Mordecai: It’s getting late. Are you guys close to the other town 
yet? 

Carl: Hello, Mordecai. How’s your head? 

Mordecai: I’ve had no... Wait, what do you mean? 

Carl: Where are you? 

Mordecai: I’m in my room. Are you two near the town or not? 


Huh. He must’ve teleported back to his base the moment we left the 
saferoom. 

Carl: Do you remember anything from today? 

Donut: YOU WERE DRUNK AND YOU MOLESTED 
SOMEONE’S GRANDMA. 

Mordecai didn’t answer for several moments. 

Mordecai: Where are you right now? 

I went on to explain everything that had happened. He didn’t ask any 
questions and waited for me to finish. It didn’t take long to explain. 

Mordecai: Okay. Back the hell out of there and get your butts to 
that safe room. You are in way over your head. Do it now. It will be 
dark soon. I will explain just how stupid you two are once you get 
there. 

Carl: Maybe we wouldn’t have been stupid if you hadn’t been 
passed out in a pile of your own vomit. We were just about to head 
back. See you there. 

Mordecai: Night comes on quickly. You’ll want to hurry. 

Mongo growled. 

“Down,” I hissed. 

Outside, dozens of the lemurs and stilt clowns appeared. They came 
from all directions, heading back toward the circus. These were the sentries, 
I realized. They were headed back to home base before it got dark. 

We had to remain low and press ourselves against the interior wall of 
the decrepit building, or we’d be seen by the passing mobs. We huddled as 
the clomp, clomp, clomp of a giraffe walked by on the wooden slats. Donut 
jumped to my shoulders and peered over the windowsill while Mongo 
crawled into my lap. I found myself making “shhh,” noises while I rubbed 
the rough, half-feathered back of the little dinosaur’s head. 

“They just keep coming and coming,” Donut said. “We shouldn’t have 
come here, Carl. It’s getting darker, too.” 

“Okay,” I said. “If they’re retreating back to their base, they probably 
won’t follow us. Let’s give it a minute and run.” 

Donut nodded. 

We waited until the steady progression of lemurs and clowns started to 
abate. There had to be a thousand of them. The sun still hadn’t fully sunk 
below the artificial horizon. Outside, the stilt clowns had finished erecting 
the barbed wire defenses and were now starting to line up behind the wall. 


Another group of monsters I hadn’t yet seen circled around a group of 
cauldrons, like witches stirring a magical soup. These monsters were tall 
and thin with emaciated arms and fabric robes and masks that hung in 
tatters, like undead executioners. Except the fabric was bright purple and 
yellow. On this side of the park there were four cauldrons set up, and each 
cauldron had four of the brightly-colored robed figures surrounding the 
bubbling and hissing pot. 

A group of the round clowns pushed the large, red and yellow-painted 
animal cages to the edges of the walls, the doors facing outward. Roars and 
trills shook the massive pens. Whatever was in there, I guessed they would 
unleash the monsters on the attackers. I caught glimpse of tentacles and 
claws reaching outward from one of the cages. I was reminded of the 
Krakaren boss we’d fought earlier, though these tentacles seemed less 
octopus-like and more, I don’t know, worm-like. I felt a visceral revulsion 
at the sight. 

“Yeah, fuck this. We’re out of here,” I said. “Let’s go.” 

A pair of lemurs and a clown remained on the street as we emerged. 
Donut hit them with three quick magic missiles as I rushed up at them. I 
punted the first lemur directly at the clown, who’d fallen backward. The 
squealing, on-fire lemur ricocheted off the struggling clown’s head, who 
stumbled again, hitting the ground. While Donut and Mongo quickly 
dispatched the third lemur, I leaped up on the clown like I’d done before, 
crushing in his chest and pummeling him in his face, smashing it in. I could 
feel the extra strength I’d gained from the rings with each punch. 

More strength. I needed more strength, and I could kill these things with 
a single hit. 

I looted a second big top ticket and hunk of clown meat. 

I eyed a group of ten lemurs one street over. They howled and pointed at 
us, but they didn’t move to pursue. 

“Run,” I said. We turned and bolted down the street, not bothering with 
the alleys. The saferoom was only four blocks over. 

“Did you see!” Donut shouted as we ran. A whistling noise filled the air 
as she breathlessly talked. “My magic missile can set things on fire now! 
My spell hit level...” 

Wham! Half the street where we’d just been standing exploded, sending 
us both flying forward. I hit the ground and rolled, coming to a stop. My 
ears throbbed. Rocks and debris showered over us. Mongo squealed in pain. 


He glowed a moment later as Donut cast Heal Critter. She rushed to the 
small, blood-splattered dinosaur, clucking over him worriedly. 

“What the hell was that?” I yelled, pulling myself to my feet. “Come 
on!” 

A purple and yellow comet rose into the air from the direction of the 
circus. It whistled as it bounced off the ceiling and hurled at us. The 
brightly-colored projectile was a mortar round, I realized in that fraction of 
a moment. It’d been fired from the cauldrons. They were firing goddamned 
magical mortars at us. 

“Shit,” I cried. “There!” I pointed at a nearby entranceway, and all three 
of us dove inside. I covered Donut and Mongo as another, louder detonation 
echoed. My health plummeted as darkness descended. 

Rocks bounced off me as the building collapsed around us. I slammed a 
healing potion as my health continued its downward arc. The ground 
cracked, and we fell again. Shit. The ground is made of wood, I thought. 
We’re falling through. We crashed to another stop, rock and wood falling 
around us, tumbling and rolling. I couldn’t hear anything for several 
moments. Underneath me, Donut and Mongo squirmed to get out. 

I rolled over, freeing them. Debris and dust cascaded, and I couldn’t 
stop coughing. My health remained about halfway full, and I cast Heal to 
bring it all the way back up. We were in murky darkness. Mongo let out a 
cry of fear. 

Light filled the room as Donut cast Torch. 

We waited for another mortar round to drop, but it never came. They’d 
probably assumed they’d gotten us. After the rocks finally settled, I could 
still hear the distant, haunting calliope music. 

“That was most unpleasant,” Donut said. She started rubbing dust off 
Mongo’s feathers. 

We'd fallen into what appeared to be a basement of some sort. I looked 
about. Above, a dim light shone through where we’d fallen, about twelve 
feet up. I looked uneasily at the ground, but I couldn’t see it. It was nothing 
but rubble and wood. This room had been built below the main level of the 
Over City. I didn’t know that was a thing. Smoke rose lazily through a gap 
in the wreckage. 

The room wasn’t large. It appeared to be about twice the size of 
Mordecai’s base with walls made of rough stone. There’d once been a 
Staircase leading up, but it had collapsed in on itself. Rotted remnants of 


barrels lined one wall. The only way out was through the hole we’d fallen 
in. 

“Can you use your Puddle Jumper spell to get us out?” I asked. I could 
also build a ladder, but it’d take a few minutes. We were almost out of time. 

“I don’t know,” she said. She backed up, peering up at the ceiling. “The 
hole is too small. I need line of sight, and all I can see is the sky. If I make 
the hole bigger, it should work. One moment.” 

She leaped up through the hole. Mongo cried out. He started furiously 
leaping in the air, trying to jump as high as Donut. “She’ll be right back,” I 
said. “Calm down little dude.” 

Mongo screeched in rage and jumped again, leaping astonishingly high. 
He’d jumped almost ten feet in the air, just shy of the hole. 

“Wow, that was great,” I said. 

He squeaked sadly, looking at the hole. 

A moment later, a larger chunk of floor fell in, and Donut jumped down. 
Her hair was all poofed out. Mongo started squeaking and bouncing around 
her like she’d been gone for hours. 

Donut ignored her pet. “She’s out there, right on the street,” she said 
breathlessly. “She’s just standing there like she’s waiting for us. There’s 
only one way out of the building, and she’s right there. I think she knows 
we're here!” 

“Who?” I said. 

“The elf lady from the poster. Tsarina Signet!” 

“Oh shit. Did she see you just now? Was her dot on the minimap red? 
What level is she?” I didn’t see anything on my map. 

Donut paused. “She looked right at me, but she didn’t move! The dot is 
white! But she is really scary looking. I didn’t have time to examine her 
properties. I got too scared! She’s glowing. She’s completely naked except 
for this quite lovely thong that Miss Beatrice would just adore. But this lady 
is swirling with tattoos that are moving and swimming about like a 
fishbowl. I don’t like tattoos, Carl.” 

I sighed, looking up at the hole, calming slightly. If her dot was white, 
then we weren’t in immediate danger. “You have a tattoo,” I said absently. 
“Remember? And I have two now. And you know Bea had a tattoo, too. 
That awful tramp stamp.” 

“Miss Beatrice’s tattoo is a masterpiece and an exception to the rule,” 
Donut said. “And our tattoos were placed upon us against our wills.” 


Bea’s tattoo was a faded, Persian cat on her lower back surrounded by 
weird, uneven wisps. The cat it was based on was Princess Chonkalot, 
Donut’s long-dead grandmother and Bea’s childhood cat. The awful tattoo 
looked like a stoned Ewok. I never understood why she’d gotten a tattoo in 
a place where the only ones who’d see it were people smashing her from 
behind. I’d made the error of jokingly mentioning that once. And the Ewok 
part. Yeah, that’d been a mistake. 

“Her dot is white, which means we can talk to her,” I said. “Let’s ask 
her what the hell is going on then get to the saferoom. Can you teleport us 
up there?” 

“Okay,” Donut said, sounding uneasy. 

I scooped up Mongo. The last thing we needed was the little monster 
attacking her. “Beam us up, Donut.” 

Ten seconds later, and we crouched at the crumbled-in entranceway to 
the now-destroyed building. Darkness had fully descended on the area. My 
heart thrashed as I remembered Mordecai’s warning. 

Light glowed from the street, and I squeezed through the rubble of the 
collapsed doorway to go outside. In the distance, about a block and a half 
down, the circus was lit like a holiday display. The three big top tents 
glowed, and multiple fires surrounded the encampment. Spotlights shot into 
the air, waving about. 

A line of clowns and lemurs and giraffes stood nearby. They could 
clearly see us here. Why weren’t they firing their mortars? 

I examined the almost-naked elf creature who stood quietly by herself in 
the now-darkened streets. She stood about five and a half feet tall, and she 
reminded me of Lexis, Odette’s production assistant. She was an extra-thin, 
humanoid creature with long, pointed elf ears, short horns jutting from her 
forehead, and sharpened fangs. She had a malevolent, horrifying look about 
her. 

Her skin gave off a mild luminescence, and in this glow, I could see the 
tattoos. From her toes to her face, she was covered in thick-lined, old- 
school tattoos of monsters. Most of the creatures were Asian-themed or 
nautical-themed, like Japanese Oni and small, Chinese dragons and dozens 
of other monstrosities like sharks and octopuses. Like Donut said, these 
tattoos were alive. They moved about her body, twirling around each other, 
rippling her skin. 

Tsarina Signet - Half Naiad, Half High-Elf Summoner. Level 60 


This is an Elite. 

The High-Elf King Finian, leader of the Liana Sector of the 
Hunting Grounds, was such a horny bastard, it was said he’d bedded 
women from over 5,000 different races during his rule. Most scholars 
agree this has to be an exaggeration considering King Finian’s harelip 
and obsession with knitting, but nonetheless, at least one of these trysts 
did take place, resulting in the unique combination of half Naiad, half 
High Elf. Considering the Naiad Confederacy’s tendency to drown 
outsiders and the High Elves’ inclination to hunt down and murder any 
mongrel child of the late king, Signet here has probably had a tough 
life. Maybe that’s why she ran away and joined the circus. 

WARNING: This is a fairy-class NPC. Creatures of this class inflict 
20% more damage against you due to your goblin pass. 

The moment the description ended, a new notification popped up. 

New Achievement! Meet an Elite. 

Sometimes they’re NPCs, sometimes they’re mobs, but usually 
they’re just assholes. Elites are powerful, one-of-a-kind entities. These 
are the non-boss, non-divine hero class of Dungeon Crawler World. If 
you come across one of these egomaniacs, they will either want to fuck 
you or kill you. Either way, they will always want to use you. They tend 
to think this whole production is all about them. Be careful. Where 
there’s one elite, there’s usually more. 

Reward: Elites will now show on your map as white or red dots with 
a black cross. 

I swallowed. The woman was decidedly terrifying to look upon, yet I 
found myself attracted to her. The effect was sudden and almost 
overwhelming. With horror, I felt myself getting physically excited. I 
pictured myself pulling the woman into my arms, kissing her on the mouth. 
I took a step toward her. It’s a spell, I realized. What had Mordecai said? 
Stay away from girls with horns on their heads. 

Carl: I think I’m being charmed by an NPC with horns. What do I 
do? 

Mordecai: It’s not a real Charm spell because if it was, you 
wouldn’t be asking me about it. Is it happening to Donut, too? 

Donut: HE HAS AN ERECTION, MORDECAI. IT’S VERY 
INAPPROPRIATE. MONGO IS APPALLED. 


Mordecai: Okay, Carl. She likely has a 100 plus Charisma, which 
gives some inherent buffs. One of those is something called Puppy Dog, 
which can make men mad with desire. It’s a weak effect at first, but the 
longer you’re in her presence, the worse it’ll get. There’s only one 
surefire way to break it. You need to fracture your own finger. Do it 
fast. It will negate the effect. Uh, make sure you don’t rip your finger 
off. 

Shit. I still clutched onto Mongo. I reached over, grasped my left pinky, 
and I bent it back so it snapped loudly. Pain exploded. I cried out. Holy 
crap. That just happened. I looked stupidly at my bent-back finger. 

It worked. I felt the spell rush away. The effect was similar to having a 
bucket of cold water dumped on my head. I just sat there and breathed 
heavily. 

The woman looked down with amusement at my finger. 

“My, my,” she said. “It’s been a while since I’ve seen that trick in 
action.” 

She had a seductive voice. It did not match her face. I drank a health 
potion. 

Donut: IT WORKED. YOU ARE A GENIUS MORDECAI. 

Mordecai: Gods, Donut. Do you have to type in all caps? That trick 
works for most charm-based spells. But you have to do it to yourself. 
The problem is that by the time you’re truly charmed, you don’t know 
you’re charmed. This is a succubus. Get away from her and get back to 
the base. 

Donut: SHE IS NOT A SUCCUBUS. IT SAYS SHE’S A HALF 
NAIAD AND ELF. IT ALSO SAYS SHE’S AN ELITE. 

Mordecai: Holy fuck. Get the hell out of there. Do not get involved 
in whatever she’s trying to rope you into. 

“We’re sorry to have bothered you,” I said while Donut and Mordecai 
talked in the chat. “We need to head back now.” 

Signet took a tentative, almost shy step toward me. In my menu, I 
prepared to click Protective Shell if I had to. It wouldn’t have an effect on 
her if her dot remained white, so if I needed it, I had to time it properly. “I 
came here to see if you were okay. I watched you get attacked by my former 
family. They can be quite... unwelcoming... to strangers these days.” 

I watched a sea dragon pulse across her small breasts. The black tattoo 
paused to look at me and silently hiss before wrapping itself around her 


back. On Signet’s arms, the monsters danced about one another. I caught 
glimpse of a giant, three-headed ogre who held a curved sword, which he 
sharpened on a wheel. 

I realized Mongo had gone slack in my arm. I looked down, and the 
little dinosaur was staring at the woman, little eyes wide. She reached out 
and patted him on the head. He made a happy little squeak. This is what 
happened with the goblins and the laminak fairies, I realized. Only this time 
we were the ones getting seduced by the ultra-high charm. 

“We’re okay,” I said as Donut leaped up on my shoulder. “Thank you 
for your concern. We really need to get going.” 

The woman reached forward to pet Donut, but the cat pulled back and 
let out a growl. Mongo looked between Donut and Signet, confused. I felt 
the small dinosaur tense, the spell broken. He also let out a little growl. 
Good boy, I thought. 

“We’re not getting involved with this weird little quarrel, sweetheart,” 
said Donut. “Carl and I want nothing to do with you and your circus freak 
friends. We will be leaving now,” Donut said. 

“I’m afraid it’s too late for that,” Signet said as she took a step back and 
spread out her arms. The tattoos on her body began to swirl, moving faster 
and faster until they blurred. She nodded toward the circus, and I reluctantly 
turned my head. 

At this distance, I could barely see what she was indicating. A cheer 
rose from the line of clowns and circus animals. A moment passed, and I 
realized, with dread, that I could see what had changed. 

The cages of the beasts were all open. I glanced at my minimap, and the 
red dots appeared, one-by-one. In front of us, behind us, and to our sides. 

We were surrounded, and they were moving in fast. 


OceanofPDF.com 


“WHAT WAS YOUR NAME AGAIN?” SIGNET ASKED ME. SHE DIDN’T MOVE 
from her arms-out Jesus pose. 

“Uh, Carl,” I said as I frantically searched the map for the best way to 
flee. We had nowhere to go. I regretted making Donut use her Puddle 
Jumper spell already. The spell had a five-hour countdown, and we really 
could’ve used it about now. 

“Carl. What a strong name. Be a dear, Sir Carl. You seem like a 
strapping lad,” Signet said. “Please keep those Mold Lions off of me while I 
organize my battle squad. I usually have this part done before I have to face 
them. Your presence distracted me, so it’s only fair. Besides, if you run, 
they will take you down.” 

“Carl, I don’t like this,” Donut whispered as I put Mongo down. “I think 
we're in real trouble.” 

“Get ready,” I said. I formed a fist and faced the closest red dot. It was 
right there, fifty feet away, across the street and down the alley from the 
house with the basement. But I couldn’t see it. I watched the dot move 
toward us. The mob moved through the building. 

No, not through the building. Over the building. It was on the roof. I 
looked up and tried not to gasp. 

Mold Lion — Level 15 

Mean, green, and it gonna eat yo spleen! 

Madam Kiki’s Dancing Lions were an integral part of Grimaldi’s 
Traveling Circus. Crowds would roar in approval as the diminutive 
lion trainer stood in the middle of the ring, cracked her whip, and the 


dozen male lions took to their hindlegs and twirled like ballerinas. 
What a sight it was! 

On the day of the great cataclysm, the gentle and tame lions were 
some of the first to transform. The spores of Scolopendra took quick 
root within the lions, turning them into the fiends you see today. 
Further transformations occurred as a result of the vine. 

As with all early victims of the cataclysm, these creatures are filled 
with rage. They will stop at nothing until your innards wet the 
floorboards of the Over City. 

“That was needlessly gruesome,” Donut muttered as I gawked up at the 
lion. 

The monster was a regular-sized, male lion with a mane. Half of his 
body was covered with a green, lumpy, glowing fungus that pulsated like he 
was being eaten. The green mold covered his legs and chest, and splattered 
tendrils of the stuff covered the lion’s face, like a pair of hands caressing it 
from behind. The lion’s right eye glowed like an emerald. Erupting from his 
mane were tentacles. Dozens of long, pink and green, finger-like worms 
waved in the air, making the creature appear to be some sort of fucked-up 
cat medusa. 

The monster roared. Behind me, an answering roar followed. Then a 
third. The lions appeared all around us, all of them on the roofs of the 
buildings. They were going to pounce at any moment. 

“Holy shit, lady, how long is this going to take?” I called to Signet. We 
now had six lions circling us. 

The half-naiad’s eyes glowed. The tattoos swirled faster and faster along 
her skin. She did not answer. 

For the past day, I’d been trying to organize scenarios such as this in my 
mind. We needed to come up with contingencies, ways to respond to certain 
threats. If Donut and I trained, we could call out the play and each of us 
would know how to respond. I had one such contingency already worked 
out in my head, something for this exact scenario—surrounded by powerful 
monsters. The problem was, I hadn’t explained this yet to Donut. 

I looked about for the strongest-looking wall. There. Just on the other 
side of Signet. 

“Okay, Donut,” I said as I slowly circled behind the half-naiad. I had to 
mentally gauge the distance. “Save your magic until I tell you. Can you take 
another potion yet?” 


“Yes,” she said, voice full of fear. Mongo stayed under my feet. 
“What’re we doing?” 

“Got a plan. When I say, cast that last scroll of Confusing Fog. Okay? 
Get it re... Oh shit, now, now!” 

All six lions pounced at once, and their terrifying roar filled the dark 
street. 

I slammed down on Protective Shell. 

Earlier, I’d tossed a goblin smoke bomb, and it’d caught in the wind, 
resulting in the bomb being rendered ineffective. The Confusing Fog didn’t 
have that problem. The lions bounced off the shell like fireflies off a bug 
zapper. Each of the six lions ricocheted in a different direction, all of them 
howling in outrage as the billowing eddies of fog spread out around us. 

Signet, as I’d hoped, was not affected by my shield. She remained 
within the spell’s area of effect. The magical shell would only last twenty 
seconds. The translucent-only-to-the-good-guys fog, however, would stick 
around for a good two and a half minutes thanks to Donut’s high 
intelligence. 

One of the lions bounced off the shell and flew into the sturdy wall of 
the building. Pd judged the distance correctly, and the lion was 
momentarily caught between the wall and the dome shape of the spell. The 
spell pushed the lion against the wall as it blindly scrambled for purchase 
with its claws, but it had nowhere to go, and it hung just a couple feet off 
the ground, wedged in good. The lion was on its side, back against the wall 
and belly facing us, angled downward. Blind and confused, it howled and 
scrambled, unable to push off the shell. In a second it’d figure out that 
rotating would save it. I had to act fast. 

Its body sparked where it came into contact with the shield. A damage 
bar appeared and slowly started to descend. Behind me, another lion roared 
in pain as one of his friends instinctively slashed at him. I bolted forward, 
pulled my fist back and punched the trapped lion in the mold-covered chest 
just as he started to rotate. 

He howled in pain and tried to slash at me but couldn’t angle his claws 
—which were inches from my face—past the invisible shell. I punched 
again and again. I felt something give. My next punch went deeper than I 
expected. 

Mongo screamed and flew through the air, attaching himself to the 
lion’s unprotected belly, ripping at it as I pulled my dripping gauntlet and 


punched again. My hand entered the chest cavity, and I opened my fist, 
grasped and pulled. 

I fell back onto my ass as the entire lion plummeted to the ground and 
rolled toward me. Surely it hadn’t been twenty seconds yet? The green 
mold turned black before my eyes, and the worm tentacles all dropped, 
mixing in with the matted and dirty hair of the mold lion. 

It was dead. 

Mongo shrieked with glee. The dinosaur grew before my eyes. I wasted 
a precious second staring stupidly at the mold-covered lion heart in my 
hand. Holy shit. I pulled his fucking heart out. I pulled out the heart of a 
fucking lion. 

“Second Chance!” I cried, scrambling to my feet as I put the heart into 
my inventory. 

Donut’s spell only cost ten of her 29 magic points. 

The protective shell fizzled out just as the reanimated lion rose to its 
feet. It stood, both eyes dead, guts trailing from where Mongo had 
eviscerated it. Signet still hadn’t moved or changed. 

Undead Minion of Crawler Princess Donut — Mold Lion — Level 5 

The zombies were a third as powerful as their former selves, but they 
weren’t blind. 

“Kill!” Donut yelled, pointing at the closest lion. The zombie growled 
and pounced, landing on the back of a lion whose health was already cut in 
half. It was over in a second, the zombie having ripped open the throat of 
his confused friend. 

I shouted instructions at Donut as I formed a fist. At any moment the 
four remaining lions would realize we were unprotected. 

Donut rose the second lion from the dead and downed a mana potion. 
She then spent 26 points to cast Clockwork Triplicate on the new zombie 
with the ripped-out throat. 

“Kill the others!” Donut cried. Two of the lions jumped forward to 
attack. A moment later, the other two followed, wading into the fray. The 
two automatons fell into pieces before the final lion was dead. The two 
zombies also fell to the last lion, whose health was down to nothing. It 
growled, looking about just as the fog started to clear. 

Mongo squealed and charged. 

Donut hit the lion with a magic missile just as it swiped at the dinosaur. 
It dropped dead. Mongo, oblivious that Donut had just saved the idiot’s life, 


pounced, landing on the lion’s back, and started ripping. He’d gone up to 
level six. He was now a hand taller than Donut, about the size of an actual 
turkey. His tail was longer, too. A set of long feathers sprouted from the 
back of the tail. 

Donut and I were both now level 14. A notification popped up telling 
me I couldn’t assign my points until I reached a saferoom. 

“Well, that was unexpected,” Signet said. 

I turned to look at the woman. Nothing had happened. Her tattoos 
stopped swirling around her body, though they continued to move as they 
had before. Her eyes no longer glowed. I’d been expecting her tattoos to 
turn into the monsters. Her description had stated she was a summoner, and 
she’d said she was summoning her “battle squad.” 

“What’s going on?” I said. “Did your spell not work?” 

“No, it didn’t,” she said. She had a sour look on her face. “My spells are 
Blood Magic. They require a proper sacrifice to work. I choose the sacrifice 
and cast the spell, and my lovelies take the blood and form.” 

I indicated the six dead lions. “You have blood right here.” Down the 
street, the group of circus creatures cried in outrage once they realized the 
lions were all dead. We needed to get out of here. The mortars were going 
to start firing again at any moment. 

“T can’t use them,” she said. As I watched, one of the lions twitched. I 
jumped back and formed a fist. Donut screeched and leaped onto my 
shoulder. A green line of mold oozed off the lion and hit the ground. It 
started creeping back toward the circus. 

Donut fired a magic missile at the ground. The mold shriveled and died. 

“Don’t bother,” Signet said. “The mold isn’t dangerous. Not directly, 
and you won’t get it all no matter how hard you try. Believe me. You can 
incinerate the bodies, and you’ll still miss some. All it takes is a single, 
microscopic spore to get back to the vine, and tomorrow this lion will be 
regrown and ready to attack again.” She sighed. “Let’s back up a block 
before those acrobats start shooting at us. This night’s attack is canceled. 
What a disappointment. My boys were really looking forward to it.” 

We walked away from the circus to the jeers of the clowns. A few 
mortars did fire, though we were clearly out of range. 

“You can only cast that summoning once a night?” I asked. 

Signet gave me a half smile. Her ghoulish face looked downright 
sinister. “That is correct, Carl.” 


Donut: CARL I DO NOT LIKE THIS LADY EVEN IF HER DOT 
IS WHITE. WE NEED TO DITCH HER. 

Carl: We will. She’s even crazier than you think. Let me do the 
talking. Get ready to run just in case, but I don’t think we’ll have to. I 
want to get some info from her first. I don’t think she’s dangerous, not 
anymore, not as long as we don’t provoke her. 

“So,” I said, trying to sound casual. “Which one of us was supposed to 
be the sacrifice? Me or the cat?” 

“You, of course,” Signet said, seeming not a bit surprised I’d figured it 
out. “The moment one of those lions cut you open, all of your blood 
would’ve flown into me and animated my squad. We’ve never used primal 
blood before, but I can sense how powerful it is. But you received nary a 
scratch.” 

“Wait,” I said. “All my blood would’ve flowed out of me even if I’d just 
received a single cut?” 

Pd already deduced the real reason why her spell hadn’t worked. She 
didn’t really want us to protect her. She’d wanted to charm me and then 
have me die while defending her. She hadn’t been casting her spell while all 
those tattoos were swirling about. She’d already cast it, and they were just 
waiting for my blood. This NPC was crazy and dangerous, but she was also 
clearly part of the quest, and I intended on getting the full story. 

“Just a single cut wouldn’t do it. It has to be a life-ending cut. I must 
say, it can be a hassle.” 

“What sort of creature do you usually use?” I asked. 

She shrugged. “I usually catch something, the bigger the better. I’m not 
allowed to bleed the sacrifice myself. Otherwise I would’ve just killed you. 
I have to capture something and then capture a second, different something, 
put them together so they fight, guess which one is going to lose, and then 
cast my spell on the loser before they receive their first injury. The moment 
they’re dead, my battle squad arises. How powerful they are depends 
wholly on the quality of the blood.” 

Donut: SHE IS GOING TO TRY TO CAPTURE US, CARL. WE 
NEED TO GET OUT OF HERE. 

Donut was right. It was stupid to keep following her. I paused in the 
street. We were only two blocks over now from the saferoom. But before 
we left, I had to ask one last question. The all-important question. 

“Why are you attacking them?” I asked. 


She indicated a tall, white building. “My home is over there. I moved in 
because it is close to the vine, and the circus can no longer move from their 
spot. I have refreshments. If you’d like to join me for an evening drink, I 
will regale you with the sad tale of Signet the Bastard and Grimaldi, the 
man she loved.” 

“Bastards can be girls?” Donut asked, speaking for the first time. 

“Yes,” Signet said. “I learned quite early the term does not discriminate 
between male or female.” 

“We have to get going,” I said. “But I would love to talk more about this 
with you later. But only if you promise not to try to sacrifice us.” 

She smiled. “After seeing how well you two fight, you needn’t worry 
about that. If you promise to help me with my assault, I will tell you the full 
story.” 

“We will come back tomorrow night,” I said. “But if you don’t mind, 
we’ |l meet up after you’ve already summoned your squad.” 

She smiled at that. She tapped the ground with her foot. “P1 meet you 
right here an hour after sundown tomorrow night.” 


“What’s the point of having me as a manager if you two suicidal idiots 
don’t listen to my advice?” Mordecai raged after we arrived back at the 
Belly-Rubbed Pug saferoom. 

We'd had to dodge a single mob on our way to the inn. It was a spider 
thing, but its body was an eyeball the size of a beach ball. It?d woven a web 
across the street, and we’d had to take the long way to the room. 

The recap episode was about to air when we arrived. We approached the 
room, and I sent a quick message to Mordecai that we were going in as a 
courtesy. If Pd known he was going to be such an ass, I wouldn’t have 
warned him. 

“Within minutes of us going out there, we got that quest,” I said. “I 
asked you if it was important or if we should ignore it. Well guess what? 
You didn’t answer because you were shitfaced.” 

Mordecai took a deep breath. “I apologize. I have not had the pleasure 
of drinking in an Over City pub in a very long time, and I took advantage of 
the opportunity. I did not take into account the Incubus’s weakness, which 


is alcohol. But if I had been of sound mind, I would have told you that 
quests are great for experience and loot, but only if you are comfortably 
ahead of the difficulty curve for the level. Since we only have eight days, 
and you are currently playing catch-up, I would’ve said to skip it and do 
what I originally told you to do.” 

“And we probably would’ve taken that advice had you actually given 
it,” I said. 

“Furthermore,” Mordecai continued. “After I was cogent of my 
surroundings, I told you to stay away from the goddamned elite, but did you 
listen? No. You made a date with her for tomorrow night. A date, should 
you decide to attend, that will surely result in all of the blood seeping from 
your veins and into her minions.” 

“I don’t like that lady,” Donut said as she munched a freshly-prepared 
tuna steak. Mongo devoured a plate of something that looked like raw 
hamburger meat on the floor next to her. He looked up and squeaked 
agreement. 

“She’s an elite,” Mordecai said. “Never trust an elite.” 

“So what, exactly, are elites? How are they different than other NPCs? 
Is it just because they’re more powerful?” 

Mordecai sighed. “Okay, so elites. There are thousands of them spread 
throughout the urban levels of the dungeon. Unlike most mobs and dungeon 
NPCs, they can—and do—freely travel between the urban floors. In 
addition to the crawl, there is also a more scripted aspect to the dungeon. 
Think of it as a soap opera or a Serial. All of these stories activated with the 
opening of the third floor. Every season they have multiple storylines pop 
up at once, like in September when all the new shows come out on 
television. There are also a few running stories that have been spanning 
multiple seasons, but that’s all on the ninth floor. That’s too complicated to 
explain right now.” 

“Wait,” I said. “So, they’re like actors?” 

He shook his head. “Do you remember what we discussed earlier about 
how Borant owns and alters the minds of some mobs and NPCs? Elites are 
never naturals. They are designed, printed, and then imprinted with the 
memories needed for them to act out their drama. As far as they’re 
concerned, this is their real world.” 

“But that’s how it is with most of the other mobs,” I said. 


Mordecai shook his head again, this time more adamantly. “No. Regular 
mobs are autonomous. Once they’re set loose in the dungeon, what they do 
is up to chance. Here is the thing with elites, and this is extremely 
important, so pay careful attention. Your quest with this circus and this 
Signet woman is a storyline, a drama created for the viewers by a team of 
writers. It will play itself out whether or not you get involved. It will have 
its own show and team of people working on that show who have been 
working on it for a very long time and who will be very protective of it. 
Some of these dramas and storylines become quite popular in their own 
right. While elites aren’t directly controlled by the AI and the writers, they 
are constantly being nudged and manipulated. If the writers don’t like 
where a storyline is going, they will hot patch new instructions right into 
the elite’s minds. There are Al-controlled rules to keep the dungeon ‘fair’ 
for the crawlers, but those rules are much looser when it comes to elites. If 
it comes down to saving the life of a single crawler or blowing an entire 
drama that’s been building for weeks, what do you think is going to 
happen? I’ve seen it a dozen times. A hot shit crawler comes across an elite, 
and instead of trying to solve the quest, he decides to go all murder hobo 
and kill the NPC. Something always happens. Something bad. Most of 
these elites have very thick plot armor, and in those stories, you’re the extra. 
The red shirt. The guest star. Not every quest will involve elites, but if it 
does, then I will always suggest that you stay the hell away. Especially 
when that storyline just launched, because there’s a whole team of writers 
and producers out there who don’t want their precious little series to get 
canceled after the first day. And if they can write in the death of a popular 
crawler, all the better. It will guarantee their show gets more viewers.” 

“So when we talk to that Signet woman, we’re on another show?” 
Donut asked. 

Mordecai just looked at the cat. “Out of all of what I just said, that’s 
what you take away?” 

“Wait,” I said. A notion came at me. Something Signet had said. “But if 
this level is only eight days, what happens when the floor collapses?” 

“The important elites will go down to the sixth floor, and the story will 
continue. While you crawlers are dicking around on the fourth and fifth 
floors, these dramas will continue to play out. That is until you guys get 
there to mess it all up. That’s part of the fun for the viewers, seeing how 
crawlers crap all over the producer’s hard work. It’s like taking Jason from 


a Friday the Thirteenth movie and tossing him into a late-season episode of 
Jane the Virgin just to see what happens. But, like I said, the producers and 
writers aren’t going to allow you to just come and do it this early. They will 
fight back.” 

“But only if we’re going against their planned storyline,” I said. “If 
we're aiding the narrative, they might actually do the opposite. They might 
help us.” 

Mordecai scoffed. “You can also just sit here in this pub and play with 
yourselves for the next seven days. It might be fun, but it’s also a one-way 
ticket to getting left behind. Forget this quest and go to the city.” 

The center television screen snapped on, and the opening music for the 
recap episode played. 

“Special Edition! See what your favorite crawlers chose as their race!” 
the announcer cried. 

I sat back and thought about everything that had happened today while 
we watched a shortened version of the bloody first part of the show. Some 
large group of crawlers fought against a demon-like city boss with crab 
pincers. The boss ripped through them in seconds, killing about forty 
crawlers with horrifying alacrity. The demon cackled with glee as it killed 
them all. 

The first crawler they showed getting her upgrade was Hekla of 
Brynhild’s Daughters, the woman from Iceland who’d gathered a large 
group of female crawlers around her. It showed her entering the saferoom 
alone. 

“Where’s the rest of her group?” I asked. 

“They didn’t get together until later,” Mordecai said, “So they had 
different game guides. They’ ll come out scattered to the wind.” 

“Yikes,” I said. “That sucks.” I patted Donut on the head. I was about to 
say something about how it would suck if Donut and I got separated, but I 
thought better of saying that out loud. 

Hekla emerged from the guild, and the program showed a spinning, 3D 
version of her new character. Her new race was Amazonian. She looked 
mostly the same, but she was a good foot taller than before and much wider. 
The pretty, blonde woman had been in good shape before. Now she looked 
like a professional bodybuilder. It didn’t show her stats, but I could tell it 
was Clearly a strength build with a good amount of dexterity, too. 


A scrolling paragraph of text appeared, much too fast for me to read that 
explained her new class. She’d been allowed to pick an earth class, and she 
went with the obvious choice. Shieldmaiden. 

“I couldn’t read what it said,” I groused. 

“You’re being forced to watch on a flat display,” Mordecai said. “If you 
were using a standard view screen, you’d be able to grab that paragraph and 
pull it up. You’ll be able to buy such a display for your private base later, 
but they’re likely prohibitively expensive.” 

The next few groups were crawlers I didn’t recognize, but who had 
picked odd races or classes, including a man who turned himself in a 
massive slug and a woman who turned herself into a four-armed, blue- 
skinned replica of the Hindu goddess Kali. The same woman picked an odd 
class called Kabaddi Raider. 

“A few groups aren’t done with their selection,” the announcer said. 
“But it appears just about 80% of the crawlers have opted to remain 
human.” 

“That’s way more than I thought it would be,” I said. “I’m surprised.” 

“Not me,” Donut said. “You humans were always a cocky bunch.” 

“You didn’t change, either,” I said. 

“Of course not, Carl. Why would I stop being a cat?” 

“Its usually around that percentage,” Mordecai said. “Sometimes 
higher.” 

“Really?” I asked. 

He nodded. “Whenever there’s a poll of Syndicate citizens, the vast 
majority of them always say they’d change into something else if they were 
put in that situation. But the truth is, when people are really given the 
opportunity to be something else, and that change is real and permanent, 
most opt to stay the same. They get scared. Even if there’s an obviously 
better choice, it’s terrifying to take that leap. And if that something else is a 
major change, there’s always a learning curve. Sometimes it’s better to stay 
in familiar skin. Believe me, it can be a real mind bender to suddenly find 
yourself two feet taller or shorter. Or if you lose limbs, or worse, gain 
them.” 

“We’re on!” Donut cried as we appeared on the screen. I was shown 
first. “Look, Mongo. Uncle Carl is on television.” She pointed up at the 
screen. Mongo looked and started bouncing up and down, waving his arms. 


They played a brief history of the Primal race. They showed another 
human from many seasons ago who’d chosen the same race. They showed 
him flying through the air with white, wispy angel wings, wielding a 
massive sword made of lightning as he charged at a humanoid demon the 
size of a goddamned football stadium, standing knee-deep in a lake of fire. 

“What the hell is that?” I said, watching the brief scene unfold. It faded 
away before the actual battle could start. The paragraph that explained what 
a Compensated Anarchist was appeared and disappeared. 

“That, my boy, is a Divine Guardian, one of the behemoths of the 12th 
floor. A Country Boss. He is guarding a fire gate, an entrance to the 13th 
floor.” 

“Holy fuck,” I said. 

“Yeah,” Mordecai said. 

“Ts that the guy who made it to the thirteenth floor?” 

“No,” Mordecai said. “But he was a famous crawler. He’s from before 
my time. He died a minute later. The next time you’re with your friend 
Odette, you should ask her about him.” 

“Shush,” Donut said. “Talk after they show me!” 

As they revealed Donut’s selection process, I couldn’t get the image of 
that Godzilla-sized monster out of my head. It was a literal kaiju. Sure, it 
was a country boss, second only to a level boss, but it was still only the 12th 
level. That was the floor Donut and I needed to get to if we wanted any sort 
of freedom. There were six levels after that. What sort of bosses would be 
down there? I thought of the rage elemental. They were regular mobs from 
the 13th floor. The thought of scaling up our power to that level in such a 
short amount of time seemed impossible. 

The show ended with Lucia Mar’s transformation. Her two rottweilers, 
as non-sapient pets, did not get the opportunity to change, so they remained 
dogs. 

Lucia had chosen one of the oddest, most fucked-up races I’d seen so 
far. 

“What the hell, kid,” I said, watching the show, completely aghast at her 
choice. “Why?” 

A Lajabless, it was called. 

She’d grown from her young, street-kid appearance to a full-grown 
adult woman. As the 3D image spun, her face altered, from that of a great 
beauty to a skull-faced monstrosity. The announcer explained that she 


would spend half the day as a beautiful woman and the other half as lady 
Skeletor. While she was in her woman form, her magic ability was doubled. 
Spells cost half as much, but her strength was cut in half. While she was 
sporting her dia-de-holy-shit face, it was the opposite. Spells cost more, but 
she was twice as strong. 

She also now walked with a limp. No more running on walls for her. 
Her right leg, and just her right leg, had transformed from a human limb to 
that of a hairy goat, complete with a cloven hoof. 

As she emerged from the guildhall, clomping on her new leg, even her 
two dogs looked freaked out by the transformation. 

“She looks like she smells really bad,” Donut said. 

“That race seems like a terrible idea,” I said. 

“Maybe,” said Mordecai. “But she’s likely the most powerful crawler in 
this game. There’s probably a slew of hidden benefits in that racial choice 
that makes it worth it.” 

And then was her class choice. Again, I couldn’t see what the details 
were. Just the name. 

It was a triple class. A cleric, magic-user, warrior combo called a Black 
Inquisitor General. 

“Wow,” I said. “And I thought that kid was a scary mo-fo before.” 

The show ended, and a moment later the announcement came. 

Welcome, again, Crawlers to the third floor! 

There are still a few stragglers working on their class and race 
choices, and that’s okay. The vast majority of you are out and about 
and just starting to learn about the wonders of the Over City. We 
welcome you to a Dungeon Crawler World tradition. 

You all have made some wondrous and unique choices. Of the just 
under 700,000 crawlers who’ve made a decision, we have seen almost 
40,000 different class choices. Can you believe that? That is a record, 
and we are very proud to see such diversity. 

A couple announcements regarding this third floor. While the 
bathroom penalties have been removed, we want to remind the 
crawlers that restrooms still populate this floor. In the villages you may 
find restrooms in any pub and in some shops. In the ruins, the toilets 
are just as prevalent as they were on the higher floors. Please do not 
force us to backtrack. 


We are already seeing much interest in the sponsorship program. 
And while the program doesn’t officially get underway until the fourth 
floor, potential sponsors now have the ability to put in early bids. 
Therefore, remember to be as entertaining as possible! 

Finally, many of you are discovering new abilities and spells and 
wish to try them out. We urge you to do so. But this is just a general 
warning that any attempts of violence against non-combatant NPCs 
should be avoided. While this practice is technically not against the 
rules, the Borant corporation wishes to keep the citizenry as safe as 
possible. As a result, we have adjusted the experience counter for 
citizens down to zero. In addition, city guards have been given a slight 
boost in stats. 

That’s all for now. Get out there and kill, kill, kill! 

“What’s with the warning about the NPCs?” I asked. 

“Who knows?” Mordecai said. 

We spent some time talking about the day and some of the things Signet 
had said. She’d mentioned that Grimaldi had turned into something called a 
“Vinev,” which led to a long, yawn-inducing conversation about plants and 
parasites and mind control. Mordecai counted on his fingers, giving me and 
Donut a long list of ways to deal with each kind of plant-based monster. 
This, apparently, was a subject of great interest to Mordecai. 

“Now go rent a room and get some sleep,” he eventually said as he 
handed back the pile of potions. He’d been showing us how to combine 
certain potions to make them more potent and work more quickly. “I want 
you two up early. Tomorrow is going to be a big day.” 

“What’re we doing?” Donut asked. 

“Oh, it’s going to be amazing,” Mordecai said. “It’s going to be a day 
for the history books. It’ll be the first time you two do exactly what I tell 
you to do.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


Time to level Collapse: 6 days, 23 hours. 


Views: 998.3 Trillion 
Followers: 16.5 Trillion 
Favorites: 3 Trillion 


I AWAKENED TO FIND A LONG MESSAGE FROM BRANDON JUST HOVERING IN 
my field of vision. I put it aside for the moment while I let myself wake up. 
As usual, Donut had insisted we share a room. But instead of sleeping on 
my neck, she’d slept upon her newly-erected cat tree, which barely fit in the 
room. It’d taken me the better part of an hour to put it together using the 
paper instructions and provided Allen wrench. It seemed so surreal, so 
ridiculous to be completing such a mundane task in the middle of all this. 
But the tree was light, and we’d be able to store it and bring it out each 
night. While Donut slept on the top platform, Mongo curled up at the 
bottom. I also lit the cheap candle for her. It filled the small, rented room 
with the scent of home. 

I watched Donut for a bit, and I could tell what she was doing. She 
wasn’t really asleep. She was just closing her eyes and pretending that she 
was back home in her favorite spot. After some time, I blew out the candle 
and went to sleep myself. When I woke up, Donut was back in her usual 


place on my neck, and Mongo had jumped onto my legs, sinking the whole 
bed in. 

We’d also purchased a room for Mordecai, though when I wandered out 
to get breakfast, he was passed out at a round table with a still-full glass of 
something that smelled like mead. Gordo the Bopca was also passed out at 
the table, snoring so loud, it sounded like a chainsaw. 

“Gordo, wake up! Wake up immediately!” Donut cried as we entered 
the main room. “I need my breakfast, and you need to brush me!” 

“Hold yer horses, ye blowhard,” Gordo said, sitting up. He wiped the 
drool off his face. He shook his head and mumbled something under his 
breath. “I need to freshen up a bit, and Pll get you fed, don’t you worry. 
And you can brush yourself, princess.” 

“Well, I never,” Donut said, looking appalled. She looked up at me 
expectantly. “Carl, do something.” 

“Mordecai teach you the finger-breaking trick?” I asked, sliding into a 
chair next to the still-asleep incubus. 

“Finger breaking? No. He made me a potion,” Gordo said. The short 
gnome stood and wiped himself off. “I told him I didn’t quite feel myself 
since you two arrived, and he offered to mix me a draft using a few things 
behind my bar. Something that’!] allow me to regain my dignity.” He glared 
at Donut. “It’s not right, taking advantage of me kind nature like that.” 

“This is an outrage!” Donut said as Gordo disappeared into the back. 
“Mordecai, I wish to speak with you. Wake up!” 

“Where am I?” Mordecai said, sitting up. He looked about wildly. He 
settled when his eyes met mine. “Oh,” he said. The incubus smelled like the 
floor of a biker bar. I got up to change seats, but Mordecai grabbed my arm, 
preventing me from moving. 

“Do you always drink this much?” I said. “Why is it we’re just seeing 
this now?” 

“You’re my manager, Mordecai,” Donut said. “Why are you turning the 
help against me? Now who’s going to brush my hair?” 

Mordecai: Listen up both of you. Don’t say anything out loud. I had 
to make him a potion that would knock him out so I could go into his 
kitchens and find the newsletter. 

Carl: Newsletter? 

Mordecai: Yes. Bopcas and shopkeepers don’t have access to the 
feed, so they get a physical newsletter delivered after each recap 


episode. Once he passed out, I went into the back so I could read the 
brief. I also stole a few items for potions. I don’t have an inventory like 
you do, so take this. 

He pulled several items from his pockets and handed them to me under 
the table. I pulled them into my inventory without looking. Almost all of 
them were loose herbs. 

Carl: Holy shit, Mordecai. Is that cheating? 

Mordecai: Managers only have one rule. We can’t engage in direct 
battle with mobs. Everything else is fair game. 

Donut: YOU ARE LIKE A SPY. I KNEW YOU WOULDN’T 
BETRAY ME. 

Carl: So, did you learn anything? 

Mordecai: Yes. The brief is regional, and it warned of a potential 
major battle event happening in this area today or tonight. If they’re 
taking the time to warn the Bopcas about it, then it’s a big deal. It’s 
likely related to your elite friend. So you two need to eat your breakfast 
and hightail it to that town, and never come back this way. No 
dawdling. 

Carl: Okay. 

“Don’t forget to assign your stat points,” Mordecai said as Gordo 
returned with what looked like a bowl of lumpy oatmeal. He plopped two 
bowls on the table. 

“T did last night,” I said. “I put all three points into strength.” 

Donut’s magical brush appeared on the table in front of me. “You’re 
going to have to do it,” she said. I sighed and picked it up. I still needed to 
do my foot routine. While I brushed her, I pulled up the note from Brandon. 

Brandon: Carl. You there, buddy? We were really happy to see you 
two on the recap tonight. I wanted to let you know we’re still dealing 
with selection. It’s slow going. None of the residents can choose human, 
lest they remain in their current condition, and there is a lot of 
pushback. The ones with cognitive issues have to pick some really 
weird races in order to remain viable. Pll tell you all about it later. I 
stayed human. Chris and Imani did not. Most of the residents are still 
level one, but you would not believe the loot boxes they got for hitting 
the third floor without killing anything or dealing any damage. They all 
are getting Legendary Pacifist Boxes along with a ton of other ones. It’s 
ridiculous how much magical gear we now have. Some of these 


bastards are going to be more powerful than Imani pretty soon. 
Anyway, Mistress Tiatha says we’re likely pretty far from you now. I 
wanted to thank you again for your help. I hope we see each other 
again. 

I sent him back a quick reply, asking him to stay safe. I contemplated 
telling him about Agatha, but I decided against it. I didn’t want anything to 
do with that, and I feared putting it in writing would be a mistake. I also 
asked if he knew what Donut’s new talent, Scutelliphily, was. Or if he knew 
what Cesta Punta was. 

I also gave him a piece of advice, the same advice Odette had given us. 
If they weren’t done yet, and somebody had that manager ability, he needed 
to talk them into choosing it. Despite Mordecai’s raging alcoholism, I could 
already tell that benefit was the best chance we had at survival. 

A half-hour later, Donut, Mongo, and I headed back out into the Over 
City ruins. The artificial sun had just risen, leaving long shadows 
throughout the wooden streets. Lazy wisps of smoke rose from random 
places throughout the city. The world smelled of sulfur and something else, 
something acrid, like an outboard motor that was burning too much oil. The 
air was cooler in the morning, though still warmer than the previous level. I 
took a deep breath of the smokey air. Mongo squeaked a few times, and 
Donut leaped to my shoulder. 

I pulled up the first dungeon locator we came across to make sure I 
hadn’t gotten myself turned around, and we turned toward the skyfowl 
settlement. We had a good 30 kilometers to go. 

“Look, the blood is all gone,” Donut said as we passed a place where 
we'd killed a lemur the day before. Mongo had made a real mess of the 
body, splattering blood everywhere. 

“Remember what Mordecai said? Every floor has a janitor mob. The 
rats, then the brindle grubs. We haven’t seen the ones for this floor yet. 
They might only come out at night.” 

“Are we really going to do everything Mordecai says?” Donut said. 

“Today we are,” I said. “He may have some issues, but he knows what 
he’s doing. He was right, and I was wrong yesterday. We should never have 
kicked up that hornet’s nest. Especially now that we know how those elites 
work. We need to stay as far away from those assholes as...” 

You have been stunned! 

You have been paralyzed! 


You have been rendered unconscious! 
Why do you got to get killed? You ain’t so little as mice. 
I didn’t bounce you hard. 


My head felt as if a pickup truck had rolled over it. I groaned. Multiple, 
increasingly-frantic messages from Mordecai appeared in my vision. I 
mentally waved them away. I sat up, looking around frantically. I was in a 
darkened room. I’d been placed on a ratty, old couch that stank of mildew. I 
still had all of my equipment. My health was full. 

Donut? Where’s Donut? 

My chest pulled with fear. No, I don’t want to be alone. 

“Donut?” I called. “Where are you?” 

No answer. 

Carl: Donut? Fuck, please answer me. 

There was no answer. I pulled up my minimap, but I didn’t see her at 
all. I couldn’t see anything. But she was still there in the party menu, which 
meant she was alive. Only slightly relieved, I called for her again, this time 
louder. 

I heard something. A screech. It was distant, but it came from another 
room. The moment I heard it, an orange dot appeared on my map. Mongo. 
Mongo was still alive. 

Calm down. Take a deep breath. Think about this for a moment. 

What had happened? I tried to remember. We’d been walking and 
talking. We’d barely just hit the main road. I hadn’t seen anything. Mongo 
hadn’t warned us of the attack. Pd been stunned, then paralyzed, then 
knocked out. 

The AI seemed to think I was about to die. It’d read a quote from Of 
Mice and Men. As a kid, I’d had to read that damn book three times in 
school, as a result of constantly moving around. Later, as an adult, I’d kept 
a copy with me in my bunk. I’d read it over and over. It was one of my 
favorite books, not because I liked the story but because it felt so familiar to 
me, like comfort food. It was kind of a fucked-up scene for the AI to quote, 
but it almost felt like it was supposed to be soothing. 


Carl: Mordecai, I just woke up. I don’t know what happened. I 
don’t know where Donut is. I don’t know where I am. 

Mordecai: Oh thank the gods. Are you tied up? In a cage? In a 
web? 

Carl: I’m on a couch. I’m not tied up, and I still have all my stuff. 
It’s dark in here, though. I can’t see anything. 

Mordecai: Okay. I can see Donut is alive. I can’t see where she is. If 
you just awakened now, she’ll probably wake soon. You’ll see her on 
your map when she does as long as she’s not too far. Spend a few 
minutes looking around, gather all the info you can, and tell me what 
you see. 

The level countdown had gone down significantly. I calculated in my 
head. I’d been unconscious for fifteen hours. Holy shit. It was a kick in the 
teeth. Even if I somehow got out of this, whatever the hell this was, I’d lost 
fifteen fucking hours. When every second counted, that was a serious 
setback. 

I checked my notifications to see if there were any clues. I’d received 
three achievements. One for getting stunned, a second for getting paralyzed, 
and a third: 

New achievement! Lazarus! 

You have been hit with—and survived—an offensive spell that was 
higher than level 15. The fact you are not a quivering stain of meat on 
the dungeon floor right now is testament to your sheer luck. It’s either 
that or you’re banging the producer. 

Reward: You’ve received a Platinum Lucky Bastard Box! 

It didn’t tell me what the spell was, but the moment I read it, I was 
certain I knew who had cast it. 

“Signet,” I said. “Are you here?” 

“You hurt my feelings,” she said, whispering in my ear. I felt a warm 
hand on my upper leg, between my boxers and kneepads. 

“Fuck,” I said, practically jumping out of my skin. Her firm, strong 
hand held me in place. Had she been next to me the whole time? 
Goosebumps crawled across my skin. 

“You called me an asshole,” she continued. She practically bit at my ear. 
Her breath was hot on my neck. I tried not to shiver. She was level 60. If 
she wanted me dead, there would be nothing I could do about it. “You were 
leaving. You had promised me you would come back.” 


“Where is Donut?” I said. 

“She is safe. Don’t you worry. I even saved that little dinosaur of hers. 
Your friend is still asleep and will remain asleep.” 

“T want to see her,” I said. 

“Of course, of course,” Signet said. “We shall see her on the way out.” 

“I’m not going anywhere without Donut,” I said. 

“You will do exactly as I say,” Signet said. “I followed you and your pet 
this morning. I wanted to see if you would abide by your promise. You lied 
to me, Carl. I was tempted to just melt the both of you right then. But I can 
be forgiving. I have a forgiving nature. My mother was a naiad, and she 
taught me that grace should always be observed, even in the face of 
betrayal.” 

“Your mother sounds very smart,” I said. “But I will be grabbing my 
cat, and we will be leaving now.” 

Her hand remained on my knee in the dark room. I felt her palm rustle 
unnaturally as something moved by just under her skin. “Like I said, your 
cat is asleep. My mother taught me more than just grace. She taught me 
magic. Heirloom magic, which is the strongest. The spell is called Water 
Lily. Isn’t it a beautiful name? She was a princess, once. My mother, I 
mean. Before the confederacy usurped the crown. I would be tsarina were I 
full-blooded. I told this to Grimaldi, once. He changed my name to Tsarina 
Signet after that.” 

Holy shit, this bitch was crazy. “What does the Water Lily spell do?” 

“Tt puts you to sleep, of course,” she said. “And you don’t wake up until 
I cancel the spell. If I die, she dies, too.” 

A new wave of fear swept over me. “What do you want me to do?” 

She smiled. “Just fulfill your promise. That is all.” 

“I promised you we would help you assault the circus. I can’t do that 
without Donut.” 

“You’re going to have to try. This is my deal. My grace. This is how 
you win back your life.” 

Shit. 


The bottom floor of Signet’s building was an empty shell with broken walls 
on three of the four sides. Outside, the sun had made a full journey across 
the sky. It sank now behind the distant buildings. Donut lay asleep in the 
middle of the room, placed upon a rotting, cushioned chair. It was the only 
thing in the room other than a large cage containing Mongo, who hopped up 
and down and screeched at my approach. 

“Donut!” I cried, rushing up to the cat. I went to a knee and stroked her 
soft fur. I remembered brushing it earlier. It was hard to look at her like this. 
She’s so small, so vulnerable. She had Unconscious hovering over her 
body. 

I reached over and opened up Mongo’s cage. The dinosaur jumped onto 
the chair and pushed his head questioningly against the cat, who did not 
wake up. He let out a worried screech. 

Signet stood nearby, her hands clasped in front of her. Her small, bare 
breasts would’ve been a distraction at any other time, even with her ghastly 
face. Her tattoos seemed to congregate on her body, facing whatever 
direction I was in, all of them staring at me intently. 

“We can’t leave Donut here,” I said, looking about the room. We were 
practically outside. Any wandering mob would find her. I worried about the 
janitor mob, whatever it might be. 

“She will remain,” Signet said. 

“No. Fuck you,” I said. I reached to pick her up. A health bar appeared 
the moment I lifted her. It started quickly falling. 

“Carl. I would return her immediately to her place. A water lily must 
not be removed, lest it die.” 

I quickly put her limp body back in the chair. The bar stopped moving 
down. A moment later, and it began to ease its way up. 

“Come, Carl. It is almost time for me to cast my summoning. We have 
much to prepare before the assault.” 

“Just a minute,” I said. “Watch out, Mongo.” I started pulling the last of 
the redoubt pieces from my inventory. I had multiple pieces of wood and 
metal in my pack. I erected an ugly, quick and dirty shelter around the cat, 
like a pyramid. I worked as quickly as I could. 

“Carl,” Signet said. “Now.” 

“Jesus, you’re worse than Bea,” I said as I put the last piece in place. 
The obstacle wouldn’t protect Donut from a determined mob, but this was 
better than nothing. Mongo jumped to the top of the neck-high, haphazard 


pyramid. He looked down through the jagged hole in the top and then back 
at me. 

I put my hand against the side of the dinosaur’s head. He was still small, 
but at level six, he was now bigger than Donut. “I don’t know if you 
understand me, but you have to stay here, and you have to protect her. It’s 
the most important thing you’ve ever had to do. I gotta go now, but I will be 
back. Do you understand?” 

Mongo screeched, looked down at Donut through the hole in the top of 
the pile of crap and screeched again. 

I turned and followed Signet out the door. I was giving Mordecai a 
running commentary of everything that was happening. I had a plan. A 
loose plan I’d formulated on the fly. But I couldn’t do it on my own. I asked 
him what he thought, and he told me I was batshit crazy. I took that as a 
good sign. 

Carl: Zev, are you there? 

Zev: Hi, Carl. Pm watching. The whole universe is watching. We’re 
all rooting for you. 

Carl: That’s what I’m hoping for. I need your help. 

Zev: You know I can’t interfere. 

Carl: No, not like that. 

I explained what I wanted her to do. She told me it was impossible. I 
told her to try anyway. 

“I’m sorry it came to this, Carl,” Signet was saying as we walked. “You 
Surprised me yesterday when you survived. I won’t make that mistake 
today.” 

“Why are we doing this, Signet? Why do you attack the circus every 
day?” 

“Of the entire crew, I was the only one who made it through the attack 
without being altered by the poisonous cloud. And the one who got the 
worst of it was Grimaldi.” 

“Grimaldi? So the guy who owns the circus? Last night you said you 
loved him.” 

“I do love him. He is the love of my life. He saved me when I was a 
child. He took me in when nobody else would. He protected me from the 
high elves, took me from the Hunting Grounds, gave me a life. But most 
importantly, he gave me a family. As I became an adult, I grew to love him 
as more than just a father. We were going to share our lives together.” 


“So, what happened?” 

“You have to understand how horrible it was, the cataclysm. 
Scolopendra’s poison cloud was a Nine Tier attack. It attacked you in nine 
different ways. The lucky ones simply died. The others were transformed, 
all in different ways.” 

This was the second time I’d heard that name, Scolopendra. It sounded 
like this was the monster at the bottom of the volcano. I filed that 
information away. 

She continued. “Grimaldi was more than just the owner. He was also the 
circus’s ringleader. We were nearing the end of a show when the cataclysm 
came. He stood in the middle of the center ring. The others were all out 
there, taking their bow.” Signet took a deep breath. “He transformed into 
the vine. All the others in the tent, no matter how they transformed, were 
soon infected with the mold-covered parasites. This put them under 
Grimaldi’s control. The lemurs, the clowns, almost everyone. They do as he 
says. And if they die, the spores return to the vine, and they are reborn the 
next day.” 

“And that’s why you attack the circus every day? Why did you survive 
and the others did not?” 

She didn’t answer my question. “Last night I cast my spell, expecting 
you to perish. Tonight, I am putting my faith in you. You will have to be the 
one to defeat the sacrifice. I have captured Heather multiple times, but 
always for the purpose of killing the sacrifice. I have yet to use her blood to 
summon my team. I am trusting you tonight to kill Heather. While her 
blood won’t be as powerful as yours, it’ ll be some of the most potent blood 
I’ve used.” 

We rounded a comer and stopped. Lying asleep in the middle of the 
road was an unconscious... something. She was under the same Water Lily 
spell as Donut. 

“That’s Heather?” I asked, feeling sick. 

“Yes.” 

“And you want me to kill her so you can take her blood and summon 
your people?” 

“Yes, again.” 

I stepped forward. “Okay. Cast your spell before she wakes up. PH kill 
her now.” 


“Tt doesn’t work that way, Carl. I can’t influence the battle, or the spell 
doesn’t work.” 

“That’s the stupidest shit I’ve ever heard.” 

“Tf it wasn’t like that, I would’ve just killed you last night.” 

I swallowed. I examined “Heather.” 

It—she—appeared to have once been a black bear. She wore a tattered, 
pink clown hat and a pleated, clown ruff around her neck, both of which 
appeared to be physically attached to her body. Like the lemurs, she had no 
skin on her face. Above her neck was nothing but exposed skull and a pair 
of round, red eyes. 

The horrors didn’t stop there. Her two front paws had been transformed 
to white worms, like her claws had been replaced with mops. These were 
different than the worms that made up the lions’ mane. Even in sleep, they 
moved and undulated. I felt my gorge rise at the sight. 

But most absurd of all was the bear’s two back legs, which had a pair of 
roller skates attached to them. She also wore a pink tutu. 

Signet took a step back. “Okay, Carl. She’s going to wake up, and I will 
cast my summoning spell. Then you go kill her.” 

Admin Note: Boss Battles that arise concurrently with secondary 
productions or as parts of a Quest may present themselves differently. 
You will still receive awards commensurate with the boss’s proper 
rank. If you survive, of course. 

“Oh fuck,” I said. 


OceanofPDF.com 


THE USUAL MUSIC AND ~ BOMBASTIC, |§OVER-THE-LOUDSPEAKER 
announcement never came. The system was treating this just like a regular 
mob. But this clearly wasn’t just any old monster. 

Heather the Bear! 

Level 19 Neighborhood Boss! 

Performing since she was a cub, Heather the Roller-Skating Bear 
was one of the longest-running attractions at Grimaldi’s Traveling 
Circus. Her retirement had been only weeks away when the cataclysm 
hit. Now the tired, old bear has been transformed into a monstrosity, 
barely recognizable from her former self. She lives out her days as a 
hunter for the circus, seeking out juicy mobs and unsuspecting 
crawlers. She finds and incapacitates her prey using her overwhelming 
speed and strength. Then she drags her quarry back to the circus so the 
clowns may feed. 

Somewhere in there, deep, deep down, there is a spark of the old 
Heather. The beloved bear has moments of lucidity as she runs down 
her terrified prey. In those brief moments, she thinks: Good. I’ve always 
hated all you assholes, anyway. 

Unlike most boss battles, it didn’t appear that I was locked into the area. 
But I couldn’t run, could I? I looked wildly about. Behind me was a large 
intersection. A two-story building sat at each corner. It was already too dark 
for me to see inside. 

Carl: Mordecai. Boss battle. Level 19 black bear with worms for 
claws and roller skates for feet. Tips? 


Mordecai: Roller skates? Like those little shoes with wheels on 
them? Are you serious? 

Carl: Yes, I’m fucking serious! 

Mordecai: Male or female? 

Carl: Female. 

Mordecai: Shit. Okay. What about your Protective Shell? Has that 
reset yet? 

Carl: Yes. It did about 15 minutes ago. 

Mordecai: Black bears are the smallest of the bears, but they are 
faster and stronger than they look. Female bears are much smarter 
than the male ones. I don’t know what the worm claws mean. Don’t let 
her hug you. Use your shell. 

Heather roared and stood to her full height, balancing on her two legs as 
she spread her two upper arms out. 

“Fuck me,” I said, scrambling back. I’d seen plenty of black bears in my 
life, and they usually weren’t that big, most no larger than big dogs. Heather 
was an exception. She was huge. On her roller skates, she stood about eight 
feet tall. The pink clown hat sat cockeyed on her skull head. I could see 
where the cone of the hat was fused directly to the bone, like she was some 
sort of fucked-up bearicorn. 

The worm claws came to life, dozens of little appendages wriggling and 
undulating. 

...And growing longer and longer. The bone-white worms appeared to 
glow in the fading light as they spread to the ground, like pasta being made 
directly from the bear’s hands. As the swirling worms fell, I caught glints of 
actual bear claws at the ends of the paws. 

Holy shit, I thought. That’s really fucking gross. 

Where the hell was Signet? I looked about for the elite. My eyes caught 
movement, and I spied her through a hole in a building across the 
intersection. She was on the second floor, and her arms were raised like 
they’d been yesterday. Her strange tattoos twirled about her body the same 
as before. 

I sensed the movement before I saw it. Pd only looked over my 
shoulder for a second, but the bear had halved the distance between us. She 
sailed across the wooden slats on her roller skates, gliding at me. The well- 
oiled skates made a whisk, whisk, whisk noise across the ground. She 
whipped her arm back as I twisted, pulling a pair of smoke bombs from my 


inventory and tossing them at my feet. I pulled two more as I started to run. 
I’d learned my lesson the other day not to use just one of these things. 

Too slow. Heather swiped from fifteen feet away. The worms swept at 
me like a whip before I’d even realized what the hell was happening. 
Dozens of worms rushed at me, slapping into me, and wrapping around me 
three quick times like a damn tetherball. The wet, cold ends of the worms 
hit the exposed skin of my upper legs, and I felt them start to burrow into 
my body. I need pants. I really fucking need pants. It felt like knives going 
into my skin. 

Yes, yes, this is new flesh. Primal flesh. Delicious flesh. 

Strong he is. Do we taste this? He will feed our clowns well. 

The clowns hunger, Primal. They are ravenous. And now they know of 
your flavor. 

I smashed down on Protective Shell as the smoke started to billow from 
the smoke bombs. The worms severed off the bear, cutting them in half and 
killing them. The ends half-burrowed into my skin dropped away. The bear, 
which had been almost on top of me, rocketed back, hitting the ground and 
rolling away. I’d blown it a good fifty feet back. 

What the hell was that? 

The worm things had entered my skin and immediately started talking 
in my mind. The words had come all at once, piling on top of one another. I 
couldn’t tell if it was one voice or a thousand voices. Male or female. It’d 
felt as if someone had taken their dirty fingers, sunk them directly into the 
meat of my brain, and dragged. 

Fuck no. Fuck that. I would die before I let that happen again. I jumped 
into action. 

I rushed at the fallen bear, leaving the protection of the shield behind. I 
pulled nuts and bolts and barbells from my inventory as I ran, scattering 
them on the ground. 

I was too close for a boom jar or a stick of dynamite. Instead, I pulled a 
regular jug of moonshine and tossed it at the bear as hard as I could. The 
jug shattered against the bear’s head. I’d thrown it significantly harder than 
Pd expected or anticipated. Wow. Even with my enhanced strength, I hadn’t 
been expecting the sheer violence of the toss. I skidded to a stop. 

A health bar finally appeared as Heather screamed in rage. Moonshine 
splashed over the bear, who remained on her back, struggling. The pungent 
stench filled the intersection. The puddle highlighted itself in my vision, 


and the word Flammable Liquid appeared floating over it. That’s new, I 
thought as I pulled a torch, lit it, and tossed it at the bear. 

I didn’t wait to see what happened next. I turned and ran toward the 
still-billowing smoke plume. Like last time, it was an irritatingly-narrow 
cone of smoke despite the multiple bombs. It’d caught in the wind, swelling 
away from the bear. But the smoke cone was just wide enough to hide 
within. 

Whoosh. 

I felt the heat of the moonshine igniting. I ran into the smoke and turned 
in time to see the bear pulling herself to her feet, her entire body aflame. 
The red and blue flames rose into the night air. The billowing fire partially 
obscured Heather’s health bar. It moved down, but at a crawl. It wasn’t even 
in the red yet. 

The on-fire bear shrieked and started roller skating at me. Whisk, whisk, 
whisk. 

Now, if you’ve never had a flaming, skull-faced bear on roller skates 
barreling at you full speed, you don’t know what you’re missing. 

She stumbled and fell, tripping over a dumbbell. When she rose again, 
half of her skin and fur remained on the ground, revealing an exposed 
ribcage, filled completely with worms, like a knot of ramen noodles. The 
worms burst forth from the flames, reaching every which way. 

For fuck’s sake. 

Pd been saving it for a dire situation, and I pulled it out now. The 
scratcher lottery ticket I’d received from that Lucky Bastard box. Fireball or 
Custard. I had a fifty/fifty chance. It would either fire a level-15 fireball, 
which would probably kill it immediately. Or it would splatter the thing 
with strawberry custard, which would heal it. 

I awkwardly held the paper ticket in my left hand as I scratched off one 
of the five spots, revealing a little spinning circle. The tiny icon flashed 
back and forth from a red fireball to a pink glob. The skating boss was 
nothing but a skeleton now. Only the hat and the roller skates remained on 
fire. Even the round, bulbous eyes were gone. A mass of worms covered the 
skeleton, as if it was wrapped in yarn. 

The health bar was only half gone. 

Hiding in the smoke seemed to do nothing. The arm whipped back once 
again. 

The spinning icon on the ticket stopped. 


Custard. Yummy! 

The voice said it out loud, deep and bass heavy, like it was the 
announcer dude from that goddamned Candy Crush game. I had a sudden, 
inexplicable memory of Bea playing that game on her phone with the 
volume turned all the way up while I was trying to watch TV. 

“Mother fuck!” I cried, jumping back as the beachball-sized custard ball 
burst forth and splattered against the bear, who staggered and—once again 
—fell on its back. 

The skeletal bear roared in pain as custard boiled against her skin. Her 
skin and fur reformed over her body, spreading across her frame in odd, 
jerky clumps, like a stop-motion film. The bear struggled upward again. 
The damn thing was like the Terminator. Her health bar started to ease back 
up. 

But something had changed. The roller skates fell off the bear’s feet as 
she struggled. So did the hat. Both dissipated into dust. The skin on the 
bear’s face formed. She did not stand as she had before, but remained on all 
fours like a normal bear. Her tattered, black fur held a silver sheen, 
especially evident around her muzzle. 

By healing it, P’d killed the worms. The bear let out a howl, mournful 
and afraid. She sat down and lowered herself painfully to the ground. The 
last of the boiling custard sizzled away. The bear looked at me, all of the 
fight out of her. This was Heather, the real Heather, free of the parasites 
that’d been controlling her. She looked at me with her newly-formed eyes. 

End it, those bitter eyes said. I should never have lived this long. She 
made a quick, pained whimper, and her eyes closed. 

I approached the bear. I kept a wary eye on her claws, looking for any 
sign of a trick. The bear sighed heavily as I approached. Her health bar, 
which had moved to the top was now falling again on its own. Without the 
worms and mold or whatever the hell magic was keeping this thing alive, 
her body was breaking down fast. This elderly bear, Heather, was not who 
I’d just fought. Not really. She was just the shell. 

I was tempted to just let her die on her own. But only for a moment. I 
formed a fist, and I smashed her head in with two quick punches. Then I 
stood, and I finished her off by pressing my foot against her skull and 
crushing. Her skull caved in easily. 

Winner! Appeared in my interface. That was the only indication I’d just 
finished a boss battle. A few achievements came and went into the folder. 


Pd gone up to level 15. I was pushing 16 already. Donut was going to be 
pissed. 

The bear’s body shuddered. A line of red rose from the corpse, even 
through the flames. The blood flew through the air, angling upward toward 
Signet’s now-glowing body. 


Mordecai: Congrats. You just won your first solo boss battle. 

A black, crackling shell of smoke surrounded the building where Signet 
cast her spell. Mordecai said he knew exactly what spell this was, and it’d 
likely take a good ten minutes for it to finish. In the meantime, I figured I’d 
better stay the hell away and just let it happen. 

Carl: Not gonna lie. I’m surprised. I thought for sure she wanted 
me to die and that she’d cast that sacrifice spell on me again. 

Mordecai: She probably did. Like I said, the system lets them fudge 
with reality when you’re dealing with elites. Which is why we stay away 
from them. Have you heard back from Zev yet? 

Carl: No. Donut is still okay? 

Mordecai: Yes. I get a warning when her health is down to 20 
percent, but that’s all I have. Her status hasn’t changed. 

Carl: Did you learn anything for me? 

Mordecai: I visited my old friend Eklund. He’s the only game guide 
in this town I know. He’s too smart for his own good, unfortunately. I 
couldn’t get him to look up the cure for the Water Lily curse, but I am 
headed to the town alchemist now to see if he has a clue. Eklund did, 
however, tell me the name of the program. 

Carl: And? 

Mordecai: I think your hunch is correct. It’s called Vengeance of the 
Daughter. 

Carl: Oh, thank god. Okay. Thanks, Mordecai. Keep looking. 

I looted the remains of the dead, bloodless bear. Like with any other 
neighborhood boss, I received a map upgrade. I grabbed it, and the 
neighborhood came alive with dots. At this distance, I couldn’t see Mongo 
and Donut, but I could see the entirety of the circus a few streets over. 
Hundreds of red dots surrounded the edges of the circus like before, 


waiting. In addition, dozens of other red dots spread around the map, some 
of them moving, some sitting still. These were the night denizens of the 
ruins, and I needed to stay away from them all. 

A group of white dots centered around Signet. As I watched, another 
appeared. Then another. 

I felt a stab of concern. While it was a lot—there had to be at least thirty 
of them—it wasn’t nearly enough to take on the sheer numbers of that 
circus. 

The smoke cleared, and just as it faded, Signet appeared, followed by 
her summoned minions. 

“Wow,” I said, taking in the sight. I took a step back, almost tripping 
over the splattered remains of the dead bear. I didn’t know whether to be in 
awe, to laugh, or to cry. I am so fucked. 

The smallest of the monsters, a floating head thing, was about ten feet 
tall. The largest, a twisting, undulating sea serpent, was as tall as a three- 
story building. The three-headed ogre was the second largest of the motley 
collection, wielding an enormous saber. He stood behind Signet as she 
approached me. The ogre crossed his arms, and his saber caught the wind, 
flapping. 

The others crowded into the intersection and flowed into the streets 
around us. A hammerhead shark floated in the air above me. 

“Can these things actually fight?” I asked as Signet came to stand 
before me. 

The tattoos were all gone from her skin. Her white flesh glowed, her 
nakedness starker now that her only adornment was the thong. I detected a 
very slight blue shimmer to her skin, almost as if she was covered with very 
fine scales, too small to see with the naked eye. Her face, without the 
constant, swirling lines, was easier to discern. While still strange-looking, 
Signet wasn’t nearly as repugnant as usual. Now I could see the half sea 
creature that she was. But I only had a moment to ruminate over her 
appearance. My attention was focused on the “army” that towered behind 
her. 

While all the tattoo monsters were huge and fearsome, they were not 
what I expected. Not at all. They were still... tattoos. Drawings. While 
absolutely huge, the monsters were barely three dimensional. Reverse 
Shrinky Dinks. Each one was like a paper cutout of a monster, blown up to 


massive proportions and then cut out with scissors and left to flap in the 
wind. 

Every one of them was a deep red outline, with a white, translucent 
substance between the lines, like wax paper or maybe onion skin. The 
backside of the paper monsters was blank. I had the sense I could easily 
punch through each one. If I looked upon them at any direction other than 
straight on, I could see them for what they were. A paper army. The 
monsters moved and blinked and roared, but all of it was confined to the 
plane on which they had been drawn. 

I examined the three-headed ogre: 

Blood and Ink Elemental — Summoned Minion of Tsarina Signet — 
Level 50 

Created by a combination of sacrificial blood magic and an artist’s 
imagination, these short-lived elementals vary wildly in their strength 
and abilities. Their potential relies heavily on too many factors to list 
here. Kind of like humans. If you have to guess, odds are good the one 
you’re looking at right now is probably hot garbage. 

“Of course, they can fight,” Signet said. “Do you think Grimaldi would 
prepare such a defense each night for something other than a real threat? 
Now we must hurry. Heather’s blood was powerful indeed. I have 
summoned my entire retinue, but I decreased their longevity in exchange 
for more strength. We have but a short amount of time.” 

How can paper fight? I wanted to demand, but Signet strode forward 
before I could ask. As she walked away, I caught sight of one last tattoo on 
her shoulder blade. It was of a tiny figure, too small for me to see clearly. It 
was a fish of some kind. The tattoo faded away, like a sea creature diving 
under the waves. 

The monsters rustled past me, marching and floating toward the circus. 
The long, sea-serpent monsters floated sideways, so they always faced the 
circus. I remained, gawking up at the menagerie. The three-headed ogre 
turned, his entire body folding over as he glared down at me. “Follow or 
you get the smash,” the middle head said in a deep, rumbly voice. 

“You can talk!” I exclaimed. 

“T can smash, too,” he said. 

I followed. I ran to catch up to Signet, who strolled toward the circus as 
if she didn’t have a care in the world. 


“I honestly don’t know what the hell you want me to do here,” I said. 
“I’ve never participated in anything like this. I have shitty armor and all I 
do is punch stuff.” 

“You are more than that. I believe you actually freed Heather tonight. 
For two centuries, she’s been caught in that loop, and you freed her. She 
was a grumpy old bear, and I told Grimaldi more than once that she was 
going to snap and try to eat a spectator if we didn’t retire her soon. But she 
was family, and you freed her. Thank you.” 

“Yeah, thanks for the warning, by the way,” I said. “That was a one-on- 
one fight. I won’t be able to pull any fancy tricks in a giant battle.” 

“Just don’t die,” she said. “We usually push through the defenders, and 
this is the strongest we’ve been in a while. It’s the final defense I need help 
with.” 

“There’s like a thousand of them!” I said. 

I pinged Mordecai, and told him everything. I told him I didn’t think 
these elemental things were a real threat. 

Mordecai: Don’t worry about that. If they’re as big and as 
numerous as you describe, it means her skill in that spell is likely over 
15. They can fight. They’re gonna put on a hell of a show. 

Carl: What is that spell anyway? 

Mordecai: Ink Marauder. You draw something on paper, cast the 
blood sacrifice, and it animates the drawings. Certain classes can tattoo 
the monsters upon themselves. By doing it that way, her own blood 
powers the minions, keeping them alive on her flesh. They can leave 
her body when she casts the sacrifice spell. They take on a 2D 
appearance, but it’s been long rumored that certain sacrifices can lead 
to the minions being complete, fully-realized renditions of the monsters 
they depict. Assuming that is her most powerful spell, I don’t see the 
producers allowing her to blow that wad this early in the story. 

A distant cry filled the night, followed by the thwump of a magical 
mortar. The projectile sailed into the night sky, bouncing off the ceiling into 
a neighborhood one street over. More mortars started raining down. I tried 
to stick as close to Miss Plot Armor as possible. 

The floating head and several dragons circled around us, moving ahead. 
One of the elementals—an octopus—caught a mortar round directly in the 
chest and burst into flames. If Signet was controlling these things, she 
wasn’t doing it out loud. Dark shadows filled the air. Lemurs, I realized, 


seeing the dots on the minimap. They were being flung by the artillery 
giraffes. I could hear the distinctive roar of mold lions, as well. They moved 
fast, streaking down one street over as paper monsters moved to intercept. 

We were only one block from the circus now. The haunting calliope 
music rose into the night, mixing in with the roar of the lemurs and clowns. 
More lemurs burst into the air, this time aimed directly at us. 

The ogre leaped forward, sailing over the top of me and Signet, and 
landing on the ground. All I could now see was the back of the flat 
elemental. He swung his paper saber in the air at the line of lemurs. 

Dozens of the skull-headed monsters screamed as they were flung away, 
but a moment later, I heard the thwap, thwap thwap of knives embedding 
themselves into the giant ogre. Despite the paper appearance, the knives 
slammed into the elemental like he was made of plywood. He took no heed 
of the damage. He swung again. And by swung, I mean his paper arm 
folded over on its own and kind of waved at the mobs. 

There was something I was missing about the ogre’s attacks. He’d 
swing, clearly miss, and yet dozens of lemurs would fly away. He had some 
sort of area attack I couldn’t see from behind. 

I did, however, see the eel’s lightning attack. A pair of long moray eel- 
like creatures swept down and shot lighting from their mouths, turning the 
red dots of mold lions into X’s. 

Next to me, Signet fired a yellow bolt into the air from the palm of her 
hand. It arced over the shoulder of the ogre and hit something distant. 
Dozens of voices cried out in pain. Behind me, an entire building exploded 
as the mortar fire resumed. 

“Jesus Christ, lady,” I said, ducking. “You do this shit every night?” 

She fired two more of the arcing, yellow bolts. “This is what you do for 
family,” she said. 

Mordecai: I know the recipe now. It’s just Satch Toad extract mixed 
with a standard healing potion. I should have known. Negates all naiad 
sleep effects and curses. Simple. 

Carl: Do you have any of that stuff? 

Mordecai: Not in this town. But it’s common enough. I can buy it at 
the alchemical market in a medium or large town. 

Fuck. That wasn’t going to help us now. 

Carl: Okay. Plan B it is. 


I dove to the ground as another building exploded. We were only fifty 
meters from the picket, and the clowns were starting to throw rocks at us. 
The largest of the serpents swept down and exhaled a stream of water, 
blasting hundreds of clowns and lemurs in all directions. I dove behind a 
low wall as more mortar fire sailed overhead. A shark twisted through the 
air above me, howling as it burned. 

Carl: Zev. You talked to them yet? 

Zev: I messaged the producer, but he didn’t want to speak with me. 
He’s waiting to see how this plays out, I think. My boss made me run 
your request by the Syndicate AI referee, and it said they’ll only allow 
this under very strict circumstances. I can’t, and they can’t, give you 
any help whatsoever. Believe it or not, though, this isn’t the first time 
this sort of thing has happened. In fact... 

Carl: Later, Zev. Stay tuned. Pll need you in a bit. 

Despite my earlier reservations, the clowns and circus creatures were no 
match for the tattoo monsters. The defenders soon fled, falling back to the 
massive, triple tent. The ogre elemental swiped his saber and the defensive 
wall shattered. Hundreds of lemurs and clowns and the thin mortar acrobats 
lay dead. It’d happened so fast. My entire map was awash in X’s. 

There were still hundreds of the monsters left, but they were all now 
inside the main tent. The paper army flapped their way onto the circus 
ground, pushing through the barbed wire fortifications like they were 
nothing, surrounding the massive pavilions. All of the secondary tents, 
including the freak show tent, soon fell. I noted the elementals were simply 
pushing the small tents over, as if they were being careful not to tear the 
fabric. All that remained was the big top. Only a few of the elementals had 
been destroyed. An octopus tattoo had returned to Signet’s skin, along with 
a few of the sharks. They swished about angrily. 

The music was coming from a large, coach-sized contraption sitting just 
outside the big top. Steam rose from the humming, spitting instrument. The 
long, brass tubes hissed out the slow-motion music. The ogre moved to 
smash the machine, but Signet raised her hand. 

“This music hurts my heads,” the knife-riddled monster groused. 

“I know,” Signet said, “we go over this every time.” She stepped 
forward and turned a dial on the machine. It wheezed once and the music 
stopped, plunging the night into silence. She lovingly stroked the fire- 
scorched wood. 


Signet then pointed up at the giant sea serpent, which floated in the sky 
above the brightly-lit tent. The circus’s spotlights remained lit, and they 
arced back and forth, adding to the surreal vision. The behemoth was 
almost as large as the center big top. The tattoo monster folded back on 
itself and then fired a blue waterspout. I cringed in anticipation, but the 
water dissipated before it could touch the colorful top. The world around 
me filled with a fine mist, and I suddenly found myself soaked. 

Signet hung her head low. “Damn,” she said. “Damn, damn, damn. I’d 
hoped, with the power of Heather’s blood that we could overcome the 
protection this time.” 

“Why didn’t that work?” I asked. In the distance, something howled in 
the night. 

“This is where our fight usually ends,” Signet said, indicating the tent. 
“There is magic here, protecting the exterior. Ancient magic. I have been 
banished, so I can’t go inside. My minions can’t go inside. The outside is 
impenetrable, but not the interior. If we break down the tents, the spell will 
disperse, and we can finish this.” She pointed at the piles of dead bodies. 
“Some of these clowns will carry big top tickets. Find one and brandish it. 
It will allow you to go inside. The tickets are magical. They will promise 
you safe passage within the tent as long as you don’t enter one of the three 
rings. You need to go in there and collapse the tent. There are three poles. 
You must break each one in turn.” 

I looked at the tent dubiously. “I take it these three poles are in the 
middle of the rings?” 

“That’s right,” she said. 

“What about the vine thing?” I asked. 

“Also in the ring. The center ring.” 

This setup was designed to be completed by a group of at least three 
crawlers, not a solo player. There was no feasible way I could do this. Not 
with a straight-up fight. 

I pulled one of the tickets I already had from my inventory. I’d already 
examined it, but I looked at it again. 

Big Top Ticket. 

Lucky you! This ticket admits one adult into the Grimaldi’s 
Traveling Circus Big Top Show. 

The holder of this ticket is guaranteed Safe Passage through the 
public areas only. Grimaldi reserves the right to rescind this safe passage 


guarantee to drunks and purveyors of violence. 
Guaranteed good time or your money back! 
Something told me I wasn’t going to be having a good time. 


OceanofPDF:.com 


[ 10 ] 


I HELD THE CIRCUS TICKET TIGHTLY IN MY HAND AS I APPROACHED THE MAIN 
entrance. This close to the big top tent, I could see the effects of time on the 
fabric and the rest of the circus. The red carpet below my feet was 
threadbare and stained with blood. The tent sidewalls were also stained and 
filled with tiny holes. Another few years, and Signet wouldn’t need a 
magical army to knock this place down. 

“You must hurry,” Signet said. “We only have thirty minutes before the 
battle squad fades.” 

“Tf I die, you need to promise to let Donut free,” I said. 

“Tt will be done,” she said. 

The entranceway was shaped like a giant clown face, and I had to walk 
straight into the clown’s mouth. Time had faded the clown’s pupils, making 
the eyes completely white. I hate clowns, I thought. I really hate clowns. 
Whoever invented these things needs to be punched in the face. 

I had to proceed through a short, curving tunnel. Music once again rose, 
coming from deep within the tent. This song was faster and happier, more in 
the style of traditional circus music. My minimap was a sea of red dots, 
including one right around the corner. Oh fuck, oh fuck, oh fuck, I kept 
thinking as I inched my way forward. I held the ticket out in front of me. 

I turned the corner, and I stood face-to-face with one of the round 
clowns. The thing was shorter than me, but almost three times as wide. He 
wore a brightly colored, but filthy pink and blue gown with a dirty white 
ruffle around his neck. The gown cascaded over his lumpy, misshapen body. 
Unlike the stilt clowns, which only had shark-like mouths, this thing had a 
much more human face, but with pointed teeth. The white, red, and blue 


grease paint seemed overly thick, like the frosting on a cake. The clown’s 
stomach made a rumbling noise, and his entire belly shifted, like his flesh 
was alive. 

The stilt clowns were armed with butcher knives. These guys just had 
long, yellowed fingernails, like the claws of a badger. 

Clammy the Clown — Level 9 

With a face not even a mother could love, the circus was the perfect 
escape for the young, portly boy who would grow to become Clammy 
the Clown. An expert at tumbling and with a solid work ethic, Clammy 
was a perfect addition to Grimaldi’s family. 

Kids always love the fat clowns. They’re jolly. They’re happy. They 
make you laugh. The resurrected Clammy clones still exhibit all of 
these qualities. Except, perhaps, the making you laugh part. They sure 
are happy and jolly when they’re eating you, though. 

The clown hissed at me, but I held up the ticket, brandishing it like a 
shield. The enormously fat clown leaned in and sniffed the ticket, like I was 
holding a treat up to a dog. He hissed again, blasting me with the stench of 
raw meat. But he stepped aside and allowed me to pass. 

And thus I entered the main arena of Grimaldi’s big top. 

As a kid, one of my earliest memories was going to the circus with my 
mom on my fourth birthday. She’d temporarily left my dad and run away to 
her parent’s’ house all the way down in the middle-of-nowhere southern 
Texas, dragging me along. 

It was during that time she’d taken me to the circus. It hadn’t been one 
of the major traveling circuses, like Ringling Brothers, but a small, ghetto 
one. Anyone who has ever lived in the American southwest knows exactly 
what I’m talking about. Even little kid me had registered that this was a 
low-rent version of the real deal. 


They’d had clowns and acrobats, plus a bunch of other weird attractions, 
like guys on motorcycles riding around the inside of a sphere and women 
juggling chainsaws. They’d also had animals. I remembered camels and 
dancing poodles, and a clown who walked around with a small monkey on 
his shoulder. They hadn’t elephants or giraffes, but the main attraction had 
been a crusty old tiger who’d sat in the middle of the ring while a woman in 
a leotard twirled fire sticks around it. 


Most of these memories came back to me, years later, from photos. I’d 
found the shoebox with those pictures more than a decade later, hidden 
under my parents’ bed. This was after another birthday of mine, the one 
when I was left alone in the world. The box had been my mother’s. Her 
secret, filled to the brim with photographs and ticket stubs and a deflated 
balloon. The items were only of that time, the few weeks of our lives when 
she’d run away. 

But of all my patchy, incomplete recollections of the circus, there was 
one characteristic of that day I will never forget. 

The smell. 

It was unlike anything I’d ever experienced. It was the scent of peanuts 
and cotton candy and roasting corn and hay and animal musk and cheap, 
plastic toys all rolled into one. But it was more than that. My four-year-old 
mind couldn’t possibly register it at the time, but it was the scent of 
happiness, of joy, of being a kid, of not being afraid. Over the years I’d 
catch similar scents in places such as the county fair, or carnivals, or 
whenever I visited a place with livestock. But this was a different, oddly 
specific aroma that had been indelibly imprinted on me as a four-year-old, a 
scent I’d sometimes remember as the path I could’ve taken, the world I 
could’ve lived had my dad not found us and taken us back. It was a scent 
Pd been chasing all of my adult life. 

It’s funny how that happens sometimes. We associate smells with 
memories, and when that memory is triggered, we are momentarily pulled 
away, no matter the current circumstances. That’s exactly what happened 
here, as I stepped into the most fucked-up circus in the history of the 
universe. I was surrounded by bedlam, by unorganized chaos and clutter, by 
one what-the-fuck after another, and that smell just came out of nowhere, 
smacking me like a goddamned baseball bat, and making me think of my 
fourth birthday party, when I’d been with my mom and visited the circus, 
and I’d laughed and clapped and dropped my hotdog onto the dirty bleacher 
before picking it up and eating it even though it tasted like dirt. My mom 
had cried, had been crying, and up until that very moment when the smell 
hit me for the second time in my life, Pd always thought she’d been crying 
about the damn hotdog. 

And it made me mad, so fucking mad. I had so little of my mom, so 
little memory I could call my own. It was one of the few things this fucking 
place couldn’t possibly take from me, yet that was exactly what had just 


happened, and it was so unexpected, so violent, so final that I no longer 
cared about the stupid plan, or of trying to save my life. 

I just wanted to tear it all down. 

But you don’t want to hear about any of this shit, do you? It’s not 
important. Not when we were weeks past the earth’s expiration date. Not 
when I was standing there like an idiot as I watched a unicycling, woman 
clown roll past me while greedily devouring what looked like a goblin leg. 
The colorful yet demonic acrobats who, moments before, had been firing 
magical mortars at monsters the size of buildings, were now sailing back 
and forth above me. The lemurs juggled. The clowns sang. 

I thought of Donut, passed out and exposed, only protected by Mongo. I 
took a deep breath and tried to calm myself. You will not break me. You will 
not break me. 

It was as if the battle outside hadn’t occurred. These were still the 
fucked-up, transformed versions of the circus workers, but each and every 
one of them was feverishly performing a parody of their original acts, all of 
them shoved tight against one another. As I watched, two of the acrobats 
collided in mid-air and fell, crunching to the ground. Nobody took any 
heed. 

A weathered, wooden sign stood in my path: a cutout of a figure with a 
speech bubble. It was of a dwarf wearing the red and black coattails and top 
hat of a ringmaster. On the wooden sign it read, “I am Ringmaster 
Grimaldi! Welcome to my Circus! Within this tent, all your worries and 
fears are left behind. All we ask is for you to sit down, relax, and enjoy. Let 
us take those burdens from you, even if for just a short amount of time.” 

I returned my gaze to the performers. What the hell was going on? Did 
they forget? Was there a spell? Did they just assume they were safe? 
Furthermore, none of them—despite having red dots on the map—were 
even glancing at me. It was as if I were invisible. 

I shook my head. This fucking game. I still clutched onto my ticket, and 
I didn’t dare let it go. They were leaving me alone now, but I feared if I 
dropped this thing, I’d be toast. 

And then I saw it. The vine. The thing was so huge, my mind hadn’t 
properly registered its presence. I’d thought it was part of the tent or the 
show, a stage prop. Even after my extensive conversation with Mordecai 
regarding this thing, I’d been expecting, well, a vine. Like a dude with a 


bunch of brambles coming out of himself, reaching every which way and 
that, maybe curling up the center pole. 

This was more of a giant-ass bush or shrub than a vine. It took the 
entirety of the center ring, and it reached the ceiling of the tent, swallowing 
the pole. It was a pale green color, less haphazard looking than I’d 
expected. Along the ground, multiple, python-like roots spread. Unable to 
find purchase in the floor of the Over City, the roots spread above ground, 
reaching all corners of the tent. 

As I gawked, a new achievement popped up, one of the special ones I 
couldn’t minimize. The moment I read it, I felt all of the blood rush out of 
my face. 

New Achievement! You Can’t Fight City Hall! 

But you can sure die trying. 

You have discovered a city boss! 

That’s right. Let me say that again for the assholes in the back! 

A. 

CITY. 

FUCKING. 

BOSS. 

Welp. If you gonna go, you might as well do it with style. 

Just an FYI. As of this moment in the current season of Dungeon 
Crawler World, not a single Crawler has faced a city boss and survived. 
And for good reason. Only a complete moron would voluntarily put 
themselves in a situation where they had to fight one of the most 
powerful monsters on the level. 

Reward: A lot of people are probably going to watch you die. That’s 
a better prize than most of us get. 

A few additional achievements appeared, but I waved them away. A city 
boss. Holy fuck. Like with the bear, I didn’t appear to be locked into the 
tent. I took a step back and looked over my shoulder. The Clammy Clown 
remained at his post, arms crossed, blocking my exit. But I could get out. I 
could easily get out right now. 

No. You can do this. You have a plan. I swallowed and examined the 
massive plant thing in the center of the arena. 

Ringmaster Grimaldi — Pestiferous Vine 

This is an Elite. 

Level 85 City Boss! 


Before the cataclysm, if you asked any child of the sprawling Over 
City what their favorite activity was, a good number of them would 
happily tell you of the great and wonderful Grimaldi’s Traveling 
Circus. Children dreamed of walking outside and seeing the long line of 
circus carts rumbling through the streets, of the tents being erected in 
their local park. Circus night was a holiday. A time of joy. 

To Redstone Grimaldi, nothing was more important than his family. 
He loved each and every one of them. When the cataclysm came, and 
the poison cloud swept over the circus, he was center stage. He remains 
there to this day. 

Transformed from a simple dwarf to a hulking Pestiferous Vine, 
Grimaldi uses his special powers to keep his family safe and alive. No 
matter how many times they die, no matter how many crawlers the 
clowns devour, he brings them back, memories intact. Well, mostly 
intact. Somewhere in there Grimaldi may be aware that this may not be 
the most moral of choices. But that’s what we do when it comes to 
family. We protect them at all costs. 

And besides, you know what they say. 

The show must go on. 

After the description ended, nothing changed. Nobody moved to attack. 
The vine didn’t move at all. My eyes caught the largest of the roots. It 
snaked up into the empty bleachers. I walked toward it, slipping past 
clowns and lemurs and other oddities. I passed the strongman ogre with the 
appendage coming out of his neck. I realized with a start that the single- 
headed ogre’s countenance bore a striking resemblance to the center head of 
the three-headed ogre tattoo monster. He held the same jagged scar across 
the side of his head. 

This creature was also an elite. His name was Apollon the Mighty. He 
stood behind a small stand with a faded sign that read, “Iced Cream. A 
frozen treat from another world! No chewing necessary! Glides right in like 
a winter dream!” 

“Cone?” the ogre asked as I approached. He held up what appeared to 
be a petrified ice cream cone. He dipped it into a bucket attached to the 
stand, and when he pulled it up, the cone was filled with writhing, bone- 
white worms, similar to the ones who’d infested Heather the Bear. 

“No, thank you,” I said, swallowing hard so I wouldn’t be sick. 


The creature watched me pass, a strange look of confusion on his face. 
His dot was red with a cross on my map. The strange appendage, a thick 
vine branch I now realized, twitched oddly. I kept moving, clomping onto 
the bleachers. 

Carl: It’s an elite and a city boss. You didn’t tell me they could be 
both! Holy shit. A city boss. Is this still going to work? 

Mordecai: Uh. I was right, though, correct? It’s a Pestiferous Vine? 

Carl: Yes. It’s fucking huge, though. It’s as tall as the tent! 

Mordecai: It should still work. The core will be the same size. I 
think. 

Carl: You think? Holy shit, Mordecai! 

“There are a few different kinds of collective mind-control vine 
monsters, but the combination of spores and parasitic worms means it’s 
likely something called a Pestiferous Vine,” Mordecai had said last night. 
This was after the recap show, but before we’d gone to sleep. Signet had 
mentioned “the vine” a few times, and I’d asked Mordecai if he knew what 
that was. “It’s a sign of lazy writing, if you ask me,” he’d said. “It’s like on 
earth television shows. Every time there’s a cop show, the cop’s marriage 
always sucks. There’s always a storyline with a serial killer. There’s always 
that asshole lieutenant. These vine things on the third floor, they’re... what 
is the word? A trope. That’s it. Pestiferous vines are a trope for these shows. 
It’s because of the volcano story. The girl finds her grandma had turned into 
one of those things.” 

At this point, we’d already agreed that Donut and I would be idiots to 
have anything to do with the circus quest. But Mordecai had insisted on 
turning the subject into a lecture regarding collective mind plant monsters, 
which were common in the dungeon, as they were common in the universe. 

“Every season,” he’d said, “crawlers fall by the hundreds to these 
things, especially on the sixth floor. But plants are always easy to kill. Very 
easy to kill, as long as you know the trick. The problem is the trick is 
different for each one. Take that Pestiferous Vine, for example. It’s a plant 
that infects other mobs. It’s called a vine and it looks like a plant, all right, 
but it’s really a hybrid fungus combined with a type of plant you don’t have 
on earth. Don’t get me started. Anyway, it excretes these mold spores that 
infect parasitic worms, who in turn infect other mobs. What happens next 
depends on a variety of factors, depending on the mob and the type of 
worms. It’s fascinating stuff because there are literally billions of 


combinations. And these vines are real, too. This isn’t made-up for the 
dungeon. Anyway, once the worms infect the mobs, this tri-symbiont, well, 
maybe tri-parasitic depending on how you want to look at it, relationship 
forms.” 

“So how do you kill one?” I asked. My head started to hurt from the 
conversation. Donut had lost interest and was running around with Mongo 
in the restaurant. 

“For the Pestiferous Vine, it’s kind of a good news, bad news thing. The 
good news is they’re one of the easiest ones to kill. The bad news is it’s not 
instantaneous. The vine loves moisture, and it loves blood. You drip a few 
drops of blood directly onto one of the vines, and it’ll slurp it right up. But,” 
Mordecai said, leaning in closely. His eyes sparkled as if this was the most 
interesting subject in the world, “if that blood is from something that had 
been poisoned, it breaks the link with all of its symbionts. It takes about 
fifteen to twenty minutes to work, unfortunately. But one moment the vine 
is alive and well, the next, it’s mulch. It doesn’t feel it. It doesn’t know it’s 
been poisoned. But it’s still dead.” 

“Does it kill all the other mobs?” 

“Depends. Some immediately go insane. Some drop dead. Some don’t 
realize anything has changed.” 

“So, you poison yourself, dribble some blood on it, and it’s dead?” 

“That’s right. It won’t know, but if it suspects, you need to be careful or 
it can save itself.” 

“How? Is there a cure?” 

“Yes. If you’ve given yourself an antidote, and you give the plant an 
equal amount of the same blood, it will cure it. You can’t just pour an 
antidote potion on there. It has to be the same blood. So be careful. If it 
knows you poisoned it, it’ll try to get its monsters to bleed you.” 

Assuming Mordecai’s information was correct and still valid, then I 
could kill Grimaldi right now from my spot in the bleachers. Still, I was 
nervous. Mordecai had warned me multiple times that when it came to 
elites, the rules didn’t mean shit. 

I sat down on the cold bleacher next to the vine. I tried to act casual, but 
I knew I had to be fast. If these producer guys had been watching my feed 
last night, it was possible they had already deduced what I was about to do. 
Everyone in the arena continued to ignore my presence. I took a deep 
breath. Okay. Here we go. I pulled my nightgaunt cloak off and put it over 


my legs, like anyone settling in would do. My constitution lowered by four 
points when I removed the cloak, but it also removed my poison resistance. 

Poisoning myself was easy. I had a ton of potions. I pulled a health 
potion and held it in my hand. I drank one by clicking it in my hotlist, and 
then I quickly drank the one in my hand before the potion cooldown. I’d 
done this once before when Donut had been injured during the fight with 
the Juicer. 

You have been poisoned! 

“Oof”. It felt as if Pd been kicked in the stomach by a damn horse. It 
took everything I had not to double over and cry out. Before, I hadn’t felt 
this part. My health started to plummet. I kept one of the lemurs’ juggling 
knives in my belt, and I pulled the palm of my hand across it, cutting deep 
enough to create a long gash. I squeezed my hand together as blood rained 
down on the vine. 

I cast Heal on myself, which didn’t stop the poisoning. I waited the next 
few seconds before my potions opened back up, and I took one of my few 
poison antidote potions. I’d received those way back in the very beginning, 
from a silver adventurer’s box. 

I gave myself a second to just breathe. I pulled the cloak back over my 
shoulder and looked about to see if anything had changed. Nothing. I 
hazarded a look down, and the blood was almost all gone. All that remained 
was a few drops that’d landed on either side of the thick root. 

I had no idea if it worked or not. 


OceanofPDE:com 


Lat J 


I WAITED A FEW MOMENTS TO SEE IF THERE WAS ANY SORT OF SIGN THAT THE 
city boss was sick. There was nothing. It was time for the next part of the 
plan. 

Carl: Zev. I did it. But the plan has changed. I want you to message 
them right now and tell them exactly what I say. 

Zev: Oh my gods, Carl. The net is going crazy. Only a few people 
understand what you just did. But word is getting out. Your numbers 
are just going up and up. It’s amazing. Both of these dramas playing 
out at the same time. 

Carl: Zev. Are you listening? This is important. 

Zev: Yes, yes. I’m sorry. Go ahead. 

Carl: To the producers of the program Vengeance of the Daughter. I 
just poisoned Grimaldi. Even though he’s an elite, I suspect you’re 
going to let him die. I know this is all part of your plan. This is Signet’s 
story, not his. The title of the program says it all. This is just the first 
act, the origin story. This is really about her getting down to the 
Hunting Grounds and fucking up those High Elves and maybe the 
Naiads, too. 

I also suspect that as soon as Mr. Grimaldi here dies, all hell is going 
to break loose. And when that happens, I will probably die. That’s also 
part of your plan, isn’t it? I’m looking at the three poles right now, and 
I can see how you’ve set this shit up. That center pole isn’t going 
anywhere. But that third pole looks like it’s made out of popsicle sticks. 
Just a little push, and it’s timbeeerrr. Hell, that thing will probably 
break on its own when Grimaldi dies. 


You don’t really need all three poles broken, do you? One will be 
enough for whatever plan you and your writers have. I’m spitballing 
here, but maybe a rip in the tent that’ll allow Signet access? Of course, 
this would be after Pm dead. That’s all you’re expecting out of me, 
isn’t it? You’re serving your viewers something amazing either way. If I 
do it, awesome. If I fail, tragic. And no matter what, your program is 
drowning in viewers. 

I have an offer for you. If you want these ratings to continue, I 
suggest you listen carefully. 

This is what I’m proposing. I know you can’t help me in any way. 
That’s against the rules, and the last thing we want is to draw the ire of 
the system AI. But I want to be on your show. As a regular. If Donut 
and I both happen to survive past tonight, and I make it to the sixth 
floor, I will sign an exclusive agreement to only complete elite-themed 
quests on the sixth floor that are directly associated with Vengeance of 
the Daughter. 

Look at the ratings you’re experiencing right now. I am told that 
new programs such as yours rarely receive anything like this. Most fail 
right out the gate. You probably went out of your way to place this 
circus near me and Donut in the hopes we’d stumble upon it. Now 
imagine the ratings if we continue to participate in this storyline. 

You have thirty seconds after the end of this message to agree. If 
you do not agree, I am going to cut my hand again, and I am going to 
give Grimaldi here some of my healthy blood. And you know what that 
means. And after I’ve un-poisoned the vine, I am going to sit here for 
the rest of the night and enjoy the show. Nothing will happen, though I 
might spout some of these theories out loud. Signet won’t get inside. 
Your special guest star’s appearance will be a dud. After all this 
buildup, people will be pissed. It’ll be Geraldo and Al Capone’s vault 
all over again. You probably don’t know what that means. Translation. 
Nobody will watch this shitty-ass show ever again. 

But if you agree, I have a plan. A good fucking plan that people 
won’t stop talking about. But I?m not going to attempt it without a 
deal. 

Zev: This is not what we discussed. 

Carl: Send it now. Quick before he dies. 


Zev: They already heard it. My boss patched them in. We’re 
waiting for their response now. 

Out on the arena, nothing changed. Down at the bottom of the 
bleachers, Apollon the ice cream-selling strongman looked up at me, and 
we met eyes. 

Zev: Okay, they’re no longer listening. It’s a deal. They say, and I 
quote, “Let’s see what you got for us, Crawler. If your stupid ass can 
get out of this, we look forward to working with you in the future.” 

Carl: You’re our agent, Zev. I want this to be official. On paper. Or 
whatever you guys do. 

Zev: Don’t worry about that. It’s official. I have the power to sign 
on your behalf. 

Carl: That’s terrifying, Zev. Okay, they’re about to be pissed off. If 
they ask, tell them I know what I’m doing. 

Zev: Do you? 

Carl: Fuck no. Pm making this shit up as I go along. 

With that, I once again cut open my hand, and I dripped the blood on the 
root, healing the boss monster. Again, nothing changed. I had no idea if it 
would’ve worked or not, but at least for now, I wasn’t going to find out. I 
stood and walked down the bleachers, approaching the strongman. 

As I walked down the stairs, I pulled up my inventory and found the 
Wisp Armor spellbook. I’d been holding onto it because it appeared to be 
super valuable, and I wanted to sell it. Donut asked me about once a day if 
she could have it, and I’d almost relented a few times. It was a magic 
protection spell, and it would be useful to her. But at the same time, I was 
supposed to be our party’s tank. I needed protection, too. I wanted to wait 
until I saw what sort of spells were available at the magic shop first before I 
decided what to do. 

But I no longer had the luxury of waiting. I read the book’s description 
again. 

Wisp Armor 

Cost: 5 Mana 

Target: Self Only 

Duration: 5 minutes + 1 minute per level of spell. Requires 5 minute 
cooldown. 

Surrounds your body with tendrils of light. While ineffective 
against physical attacks, this spell negates 75% of incoming damage 


from magic-based attacks. Provides temporary immunity to mind- 
control effects. Higher skill levels increase both effectiveness and 
duration. It also makes you look all wispy and ethereal and druid-like. 
A great spell to have if you’re a club kid or trying to bang a vegan. 

I activated the book and added the spell to my hotlist. Because of that 
Heal spell I’d cast earlier, I had to take a mana regen potion to bring my 
available magic points back up to five. My mana regenerated faster than it 
had before, but it was still maddeningly slow. 

I approached Apollon. 

“Hey there, buddy,” I said. “You got any of them there ice cream cones 
left?” 

“Yes,” Apollon said. The large, muscular ogre moved slowly but with 
deliberate ease. I wondered how strong he really was. I hoped I wouldn’t 
have to find out. He pulled out the mass of worms on a rotten cone, and he 
handed it to me. “Compliments of Grimaldi,” he said. 

I looked at the wriggling mass of worms on the rock-hard cone. I cast 
Wisp Armor on myself. A six-minute timer appeared as sparkling lights 
started to twirl around me like a swarm of comets. I opened my mouth. 

Like the sign said, no chewing was necessary. The worms glided right 
in, entering my mouth and sliding down my throat. 

I met eyes with the ogre, who just looked at me. Even he seemed 
shocked I’d just done that. 

You have been infested with a parasite! 

“Delicious,” I squeaked as I tried not to vomit. 


Do not worry. You are one of us now. 

Yes, love. We will not feed you to the clowns. We don’t feed family to the 
clowns. 

One of us, Carl. One of us. Gooble Gobble, Gooble Gobble. 

We see your memories. 

We are you. You are us. 

The words spoke in my mind as I stumbled toward the exit. I felt them 
in my gut, writhing, expanding, growing. The Clammy Clown moved aside 
as I pushed through the exit. 


No, Carl. We have use of you, and it is not safe for you out there. Papa 
Grimaldi cannot regenerate you like the others. She will kill us. She will kill 
you. You are special. No. Why do you not stop? 

Something shifted in my gut. The worms stiffened, grew more rigid. 

Carl. 

This was a new voice. It wasn’t the all-voices-at-once of the parasites. 
This was Grimaldi. 

Carl. No. 

“Can you hear me?” I gasped. When I spoke, I felt the still-growing 
infestation enter my throat, like I’d swallowed a string that wouldn’t go 
away. I gagged. I felt the ends of the worms growing up into my mouth. 

Carl, I can hear you. Our minds are one. I know what you are doing. 
Come back. Please, come back. 

I felt the mental tug that attempted to get me to stop, but thanks to my 
Wisp Armor’s ability to negate mind-control effects, I still had autonomy 
over myself, but only for the next five minutes. 

Despite the protection of the spell, my brain felt odd, disconnected from 
the rest of my body, like I was in a room with a constantly-dimming light. 

This is what it’s like to go crazy, I thought. To lose control. 

No, Grimaldi answered. No, son. This is nothing like that. 

I ran back out into the night. Signet stood right there at the exit. She was 
polishing a spot on the massive calliope. The tattoos had all returned to her 
flesh. Had I really been in there that long? 

“Carl!” she said, surprised. “I thought...” She examined me, her eyes 
narrowing. The flashing lights continued to swirl about me. She raised her 
hands, and they started to glow yellow. 

“Wait,” I said. 

“This is who you send, Redstone?” Signet called, raising her voice. She 
spoke with an odd mix of anger. “He’s not even in the family.” 

“Wait,” I said again. “I’m not Grimaldi, but he can hear you. I’ve been 
infected, but this spell is keeping them from taking full control.” 

Signet lowered her hands. “You didn’t knock the poles down,” she 
finally said. 

“No,” I said. “It wasn’t going to work.” 

“Pm going to have to kill you, Carl. You won’t be able to keep the 
infestation at bay for much longer.” 


“Listen. We only have a few minutes. When was the last time you two 
talked? It’s clear you love this goddamned circus. That’s why you attack it 
every night. You’re trying to free them from this. And you, Grimaldi. I 
know your brain is a jumble. If it’s anything like mine is right now, I can 
only imagine what you were going through when this thing happened. But 
somehow, of all of your family, the only one who escaped was Signet. You 
did that, didn’t you? You protected her somehow. Because you love her. 
And now, hundreds of years later, you two assholes are trying to murder 
each other even though you want the same thing. You want to protect your 
family.” 

The worms in my throat surged into my mouth. The sensation was like I 
was suddenly vomiting. “She hurts the family. She has turned her back,” I 
croaked. 

Fucking hell. They’d physically forced me to say it. I felt blood start to 
drool down the side of my mouth. My throat felt as if Pd swallowed razors. 

“Don’t do that,” I gasped. “Holy shit. Just think it, and Pll say it out 
loud.” 

“My brothers and sisters are suffering,” Signet said. “The clowns have 
been transformed into these things. They kill those who they used to 
entertain. And you facilitate it, Redstone. You have a kind heart. You’re 
protecting them because they’re family. But they wouldn’t want this. They 
would want it to end, and you know it.” 

“Please,” I said. “Please, Grimaldi. Listen to her. Look, if you truly 
know my memories, then you know why I’m here. I went into that fucked 
up circus tent because I was trying to protect my family. When I killed that 
bear and freed her from this, I saw it in her eyes. She was grateful. And you 
know it. Every time those clowns eat someone, their soul is dying just a 
little bit more. This entire world is nothing but death and hopelessness, and 
I am starting to lose it, man. Signet says you used to be kind. I need, we all 
need, some of that kindness right now. I get the sense this Over City was a 
pretty bleak place even before the cataclysm. You were the joy that the 
people needed. But now you’re killing them. And worst of all, you are 
killing the one you tried to protect the most. Signet shouldn’t be here in this 
place. She has business down below in the Hunting Grounds, and you are 
keeping her from it. You are her family, and she will not leave until this is 
done. You can change that.” 


A moment passed. My timer was at less than a minute. I prepared the 
double healing potion, the one Mordecai had mixed last night. He insisted it 
would cure me of a parasitic infestation. 

Come on, you assholes, I thought. Surely the producers of this 
ridiculous drama could see the bone I just threw them. Hopefully they had 
enough control of Grimaldi to take the bait. 

No, no, no, I thought as I felt the worms surge back into my mouth. 

“I have un-banished you, my love,” I growled. 

I slammed the potion, and then I fell to my knees and started vomiting a 
never-ending stream of dead and dying worms onto the ground. 

Signet started to walk toward the entrance. 

“Wait,” I called, still coughing. “Wait. You need to free Donut.” 

“Your friend will awaken when the sun rises. Do not worry.” She 
paused. “Thank you, Carl. I do not know if we will cross paths again” She 
turned and entered the tent. 

As the flap opened, and she stepped into the mouth of the giant clown, I 
smelled it one last time. The scent of the big top. It was but a fleeting hint 
of that scent, and the moment it was gone I knew I would never smell it 
again. I’d lost something today, but if this story with the circus had a 
relatively happy ending, I knew I’d gained something as well. 

I suddenly remembered something else about that day at the circus with 
my mom. One of the items we’d taken home from the show had been a pair 
of little sapling trees with the roots wrapped in nets. That was something 
this circus always did. They gave little trees to all the kids. My mom and I 
had planted those trees in my grandparent’s backyard. Years later, long after 
my grandparents had died, I’d looked up that house on the internet, and I 
found the satellite images of the backyard. The trees were still there. They’d 
grown huge. 

All it takes is a little seed, my mom had said that day as we planted the 
trees. Just little seeds here and there, and soon enough you have a forest. 

While Signet’s story was only just beginning, I knew my part in this 
particular chapter of Vengeance of the Daughter was now done. Whatever 
was about to go down in there, it no longer concerned me. 

I felt a slight pang that’d I’d missed out on my chance to solo-kill a city 
boss, but I was also certain I wouldn’t have survived the experience. 
Besides, I’d done something much more productive. 

The seeds were planted. The roots were already beginning to dig. 


You will not break me. Fuck you all. 

Quest Completed. The Show Must Go On. 

A half dozen achievements passed by, landing into my inbox. I’d 
jumped from level 15 to 18. Another wave of nausea swept over me, and I 
resumed heaving piles of dead worms onto the ground. 

Something Zev had said had been bothering me for several minutes, and 
now that my mind was finally starting to clear, it made me jump to my feet. 

It’s amazing. Both of these dramas playing out at the same time. 

Both of these dramas? What was the second one? 

Mordecai: Carl. Donut’s health just dropped below 20%. Go. Go 
now. 


OceanofPDE. com 


[ 12 ] 


I HURTLED THROUGH THE ABANDONED CITY. 

I started about a mile and a half away from the old building where 
Signet lived. The neighborhood map’s view of the local mobs ended just 
one street before. I avoided the scattered monsters. There weren’t many in 
this area, but a few of them appeared to be large and fast. 

Mordecai: Donut’s Cockroach skill just activated. She went down to 
zero, but it kept her alive. She’s now at five percent. 

I rushed into the street, turning and running straight for the building’s 
entrance. Several dots populated the map. In her unconscious state, I 
couldn’t see Donut’s dot, but I was relieved to see the orange dot of Mongo 
in the center of the room. He was surrounded by about 10 red dots and a 
metric shitload of Xs. 

As I approached, two more monsters appeared, coming from around a 
far corner as they rolled toward the open building. They were squat and 
black and covered in spikes, each about as tall as my knee. They moved like 
tumbleweeds. A mighty roar emanated from the building, deep and loud. A 
moment later, two of the round monsters flew out the door and bounced off 
the street. I formed a fist and pushed into the darkened chaos. I couldn’t see 
shit. I pulled a torch into my left hand, lit it, and tossed it into the room. 

“Mongo, I’m here!” 

It took my brain several moments to register the scene before me. 

Mongo had once again doubled in size. That roar had come from him. 
But more importantly, his health was deep in the red. He stood on the 
ground before the pile of garbage I’d erected around Donut, screeching in 
fury. Half of the defense was gone, scattered about the room, exposing the 


chair and Donut to the room full of monsters. Mongo stood defiantly in 
front of the hole, like a hockey goalie protecting the net. 

Both Donut and Mongo had been transformed into pin cushions. Each 
of them were riddled with long, black spikes. As I watched in horror, one of 
the rolling black mobs threw itself at Mongo, who leaped painfully into the 
air and slashed at the creature with his feet. The monster spun away, trailing 
gore. Mongo hit the ground, but stumbled and fell onto his side, crying. 
Several new spikes erupted from the dinosaur’s feet. The sleek, black spikes 
were about 15 inches long, and some of them had completely pierced the 
bottom of the pet’s foot and spewed from the top. 

I examined the properties of the mobs as I rushed toward Donut. 

Street Urchin — Level 8 

These pokey little puppies only come out at night. Long, long ago, 
some of the richest citizens of the Over City kept these things as pets. 
Their name—Street Urchin—was a source of great amusement of the 
privileged. They would often joke about keeping a street urchin 
chained up in their homes, only letting the nocturnal creatures out to 
feed. The small, mindless creatures could clean an entire living space in 
a matter of minutes. When the cataclysm came, the Street Urchins were 
transformed into what you see today. Larger, deadlier, and a lot spikier. 
And after they cleaned the corpses of their former owners, they moved 
into the ruins and resumed their duties as the janitor mobs of the Over 
City. 

The ruin’s version of a Roomba, these things only have one 
purpose: to remove dead bodies and any other refuse left behind by 
inconsiderate crawlers. They won’t bother you if you don’t bother 
them. But you best not get in their way. 

They can be very tenacious when it comes to taking out the trash. 

Holy shit. These little assholes were here because of me. They were 
attacking Mongo and Donut not because they were aggressive mobs, but 
because of the defenses I’d erected around the cat. They were trying to get 
to the wood and metal hunks I’d stacked. And because Mongo was putting 
up such a ferocious fight, they were attacking back. And Donut was getting 
skewered in the process. 

I read the Heal scroll, one of the ones I’d gotten from the Survivor’s 
Box, focusing on Donut. She glowed. The spikes squeezed out of her body 
and scattered onto the floor like pine needles. Then I tried a second Heal 


scroll on Mongo, but it didn’t work. Damnit. I couldn’t use a potion on the 
pet, either. 

“Hang in there, buddy,” I said. I started throwing the hunks of wood and 
metal into my inventory. And when one of the street urchins approached, 
Pd throw a piece of metal at it. Itd make a chittering noise but stop 
approaching us. Instead, it’d roll over the refuse and start to devour it. As I 
worked, more and more of the mobs appeared, cleaning up the bodies of 
their fellows. 

After I pulled the last of my makeshift defense into my inventory, I 
cleaned up the needles at my feet by picking them up and tossing them into 
my inventory. After that, the small, round monsters lost interest and 
wandered back into the street. 

Donut remained asleep on the chair, but her health had been restored. 
Mongo lay on the ground, whimpering. His heath was deep in the red. 
Dozens of the black needles jutted from his body in various places. I didn’t 
dare pull any out. 

Carl: Quick. How can I heal Mongo? The scroll and the potion 
didn’t work. 

Mordecai: Take out a heal potion. You should have a cinnamon 
stick in your inventory. I also gave you a couple branches of thistle rot. 
Put the entire cinnamon stick in the potion. Wait five seconds and add 
the thistle rot. Put the cork back on and shake it. Then pour it down 
Mongo’s throat and try not to get your hand bitten off. 

I did exactly as he instructed. Both the cinnamon and the thistle thing 
had come from the stuff Mordecai had stolen from the Belly Rubbed Pug’s 
kitchens. 

A new recipe has been added to your crafting menu. 

A pair of achievements appeared. Then another as I forced open the 
sharp mouth of the dinosaur and poured the now-brown potion into the pet’s 
mouth. The needles dropped to the ground. Mongo groaned and shook his 
head. He sat up, nudged Donut with his head, and then he shrieked, loud 
enough that my ears hurt. Then he started bouncing up and down, waving 
his arms and circling around me, hitting me with his head in joy, as if he’d 
just realized I’d returned. 

“You did it, Mongo,” I said, petting the dinosaur, who made a purring 
noise when I patted him. “You saved Donut.” 


Mongo had risen from level six to ten. Before, he’d been about the size 
of a turkey. Now he was almost as tall as my waist. Colorful feathers 
covered the creature. Donut could probably ride on the back of him now. 

We still couldn’t move Donut from her spot, so I sat down and leaned 
against the chair, settling in. We still had several hours of night left. Signet 
had said Donut would awaken in the morning. I hoped she’d told the truth. 
Mongo, despite being much too large for this, curled himself onto my lap, 
hanging over both sides. 

I found myself thinking about my mother, my father, and of Bea. Of my 
few friends from before, like Billy Maloney and Sam. Of my coworkers at 
the boatyard. They were all gone. All I had left in this world was right here. 

Mongo soon started to snore. I could feel Donut’s warmth against the 
back of my neck. She breathed softly, oblivious of all that had occurred 
tonight. 

This, I thought, this is my family. 


Just before dawn, a brilliant light shone into the air from the direction of the 
circus. The world rumbled. The map was too far off my screen for me to see 
what had changed. 

Signet never returned, but she was true to her word, and Donut 
awakened with dawn. 

“Where are we?” Donut asked, stretching and looking around. Her eyes 
flashed, which meant she was looking through her menus. “What did you 
do to Mongo! How did you finish the circus...”? 

Mongo bowled her over, squeaking with absolute delight, bouncing 
around. 

Donut, despite having done nothing, had risen to level 15. The system 
had leeched enough of my experience from the evening into her. I suspected 
most of it came from completing the quest since she’d participated in quite 
a bit of the early part. She’d also received a loot box for it. 

“Come on,” I said. “We’re getting out of here.” 

“I am so confused,” Donut said, stepping onto the floor. “Did I do 
something? I don’t remember anything. But I had the oddest dream. 


Ferdinand came and visited me, and I ran to him, but he turned into a 
porcupine, and I kept getting his quills in me. It was quite unpleasant.” 
I laughed and laughed. 


I told Donut the story of the previous evening as we quickly, but cautiously, 
set out for the skyfowl settlement. She was oddly quiet about the whole 
thing. She still seemed out of sorts. 

As we passed the circus, I wasn’t surprised to see that the tents were 
gone. The X’s of all the corpses were gone, too, unfortunately. I kicked 
myself for not looting the coins from all the dead. Even though I hadn’t 
killed the city boss, Pd hoped to return and loot whatever city bosses 
dropped, but there was nothing. I wondered if that meant he wasn’t dead. 

Something new did emerge from the wreckage. A staircase to the fourth 
floor, right in the middle of the park. It’d been hidden before. Usually these 
things appeared on my map, even if we couldn’t get to them, like the one 
guarded by the Ball of Swine. This one had not been there before. I asked 
Mordecai about it, and he said many of the stairwells from now on would 
only become visible to us after we completed quests. This one had probably 
been there the whole time, right underneath Grimaldi. 

I wondered if Signet had gone down the stairs. For her, she’d move 
directly to the sixth floor. Whatever story she had going on now would 
continue, undisturbed by us crawlers until we made it down there. If we 
made it down there. 

“Why didn’t you just kill that boss?” Donut asked. “You still would’ve 
won the quest, and think of all the experience we would’ve gotten!” 

“Tt was a trap. If I’d killed it, we’d both be dead right now.” 

“Well, if I had been there, we would’ve done things differently.” 

Carl: Also, I don’t want to add this part out loud. This is a good 
thing. We now have yet another group looking out for us. It’s in that 
production studio’s best interest to keep us alive. I doubt they can help 
us much, but the more advocates we have, the better. 

Donut: Until we get to the sixth floor and they have written out 
some story designed to get us killed. Or worse, they realize more people 
are talking about you than they are about Signet, and they try to get us 


killed before we even get that deep. We are guest stars, Carl. It’s too 
dangerous for a show to have guest stars that are more interesting than 
the main character. That’s why they killed Barb on Stranger Things. 

Carl: That... That does make sense. Except the Barb part. You’re 
better with this television stuff than I am. When we get there, we’ll 
need to think of every possible scenario. 

Donut: GUESSING THE PLOTLINES OF TELEVISION SHOWS 
IS MY SUPER POWER. 

The second she said that, I realized she hadn’t posted the earlier, longer 
chat message in all caps. I decided not to say anything about it. It gave the 
impression Donut was maturing. Slowly. Very slowly. 

But there was more to it, something that had been bothering me for a 
while now. Donut made a lot of seemingly-rash decisions and comments, 
yet they were almost always good decisions, even though they oftentimes 
didn’t look like it at the time. And while I knew her intelligence being 
higher than mine didn’t really mean she was smarter than me, I’d been 
suspecting for a while now that so much of her camera-facing self was an 
act, designed to hide her true cunning nature from the world. The problem 
was now we were always camera-facing. 

As outgoing, as brash as she was, she was still new to this world, new to 
having real, sapient thoughts. She was still coming into her own. The adult 
she would become was in there somewhere, just starting to emerge, but 
Odette was right about her. She was still a child, and she held many child- 
like attitudes and beliefs. It’d be a long time before she fully matured. But it 
was clear if she did manage to grow up, she’d develop into a fiercely 
intelligent person. 

At the same time, she seemed to hold the belief that outward cleverness 
and quiet efficiency was something she needed to hide, or worse, suppress. 
Part of it was the nature of the beast. After all, we needed to be popular to 
survive, but I was starting to really worry about her development, and I had 
no idea how to talk to her about it without sounding like an ass. 

I had a quick memory of Bea’s mom. It was just this past Thanksgiving, 
and we’d driven over to spend the weekend at her parent’s house. I’d been 
asleep on the couch, but I awakened to hear Bea and her mom whispering 
as they drank their vodka, the ice cubes clinking in the glasses. We’d 
brought Donut, and she’d been asleep on my neck on the couch. They had 
like ten other Persians around the house, and Donut was always freaked out 


by the other cats, so she always stuck by me or Bea when we visited. I’d 
woken up, and I had to pee, but Donut snored, and I hadn’t wanted to wake 
her. So I remained glued to the couch, eavesdropping on Bea and her mom. 

Bea’s mom had said, “You have to make them think you’re dumber than 
you are. That’s the only way to catch a good man. You can’t control the 
ones who are smarter than you. And you don’t want the dumb ones to know 
they’re the dumb ones. Once a man realizes he’s stupider than his mate, he 
gets mean. You’re lucky to have found Carl. I just wish he was a doctor or a 
lawyer.” 

That Bea’s mom thought I was a dumbass was nothing new, so this 
didn’t surprise me. I didn’t particularly care what she thought about me. 

Bea had sighed. “Yeah,” she said. “He’s not complicated, that’s for sure. 
It doesn’t take much to make him happy. He says what he means. He won’t 
fight me, even if I try to fight. He’s not a doctor, but he makes good money, 
and he doesn’t spend it on anything. Plus I love him, mom. I know I screw 
it up a lot. But I do love him. I really do.” 

That attitude, that we had to wear a mask, even toward our family, it 
was one I could never understand. A lot of people, men and women, 
thought like that, and I didn’t get it. And now I was afraid Donut had 
inherited that same attitude directly from Bea and her mom. 

A few minutes later, Bea and her mom had a different conversation, one 
about Donut. It was something I was glad now that the cat hadn’t 
overheard. 

I was reminded of something else I wanted to talk about. I sent a 
message to Zev asking if she was available to talk. 

Zev: Hello you two. You sure know how to make a splash. I just 
heard back, and we have you both booked for a new show the day after 
tomorrow. It’s called Danger Zone with Ripper Wonton. It’s a round 
table. A real round table. There will be other Crawlers there and a few 
other intergalactic celebrities, maybe a politician. The show covers a 
few different hot topics of the day. 

Donut: OHH, THAT SOUNDS DELICIOUS. 

Zev: It has an audience participation segment, too. People will call 
in and ask questions. This is uncensored, so be ready for anything. 

Carl: I can’t wait. Hey Zev. I have a question. The real reason I 
messaged is I was wondering if you could tell me who the production 


company behind Vengeance of the Daughter is? Is it a Kua-Tin 
company? 

Zev: No. Nobody in our system is allowed to run serials while we 
run the game. These are done by private groups, just like with the talk 
shows. We’re not well known for our dramas, anyway. I’m afraid the 
nuances of compelling scripted drama are lost on the average Kua-Tin. 

Carl: Okay, so who runs the one we just contracted with? 

Zev: It’s an entity called Sensation Entertainment, Incorporated. 
They’re from one of the center systems, which tend to be more 
integrated. The gentleman I was dealing with was a Sac. 

Carl: What the hell is a Sac? 

Zev: It’s a race of people. They’re pretty common. Since you don’t 
know, I can’t tell you, Pm afraid. It’s not that important. Good luck 
today. P’ll keep in touch and will let you know when it’s time to go to 
your interview. 

Donut: BYE ZEV! 

We fought several, random mobs as we trekked. Most of them averaged 
around levels 9-11. Each of us practiced with our spells, casting over and 
over, trying to get them to level up. Mordecai explained that spells did 
eventually level-up when you just randomly cast them, but the system was 
smart enough to distinguish between practicing and actual, combat usage. 

Donut managed to level her Clockwork Triplicate spell up to level 3, 
much to Mongo’s delight. 

I practiced my Fear spell on every mob we saw. All of the circus 
creatures had been immune to it, but the other Over City mobs were not. 
The problem was the spell tended to make them run away, and if we didn’t 
kill them, we didn’t get any experience. 

To solve the issue, Donut and I came up with the first move of what I 
would call our “playbook.” I gave a name to each play, and as soon as it 
was Called, we’d follow a set of predetermined reactions. While it was good 
to be adaptive and fluid, the fight with the mold lions taught me that having 
a set of canned reactions to certain situations could be beneficial. Either of 
us were allowed to call plays, and once someone did, we needed to follow 
the play without question. That way we’d work together and know what 
each other were doing. This first one I called “Panic.” I’d cast Fear, and 
Donut would hit it with a missile. Simple. It wasn’t complicated, and it was 
pretty much what would naturally happen anyway. But I figured it would be 


a good start. As time went on, we’d have more and more complicated sets 
of reactions, including ones that integrated Mongo. 

We practiced the Panic play, and I managed to raise my Fear spell up to 
level three. The spell was simple. If I successfully cast it, the mob either ran 
away, or it stood its ground, but its dexterity was lowered by an increasing 
amount each level. At level five, it would work on groups of mobs, so I 
needed to work on it as much as possible. 

And speaking of Mongo... that little dude wasn’t so little anymore. 
Now that he was level 10, he was starting to look scary as fuck. I was glad 
he was on our team, and I was extra glad Donut had spent so much effort on 
training him to follow orders. He still had a tendency to scream at the sight 
of monsters, but he was much, much better at not turning into a death 
chicken berserker until we unleashed him. His experience with protecting 
Donut had bonded the two even further. 

He had a jump attack that was just amazing. He could now leap twenty 
feet from a complete standstill. He’d fly through the air, feet first, and his 
claws could disembowel an enemy before it even realized what was 
happening. I knew these things were pack hunters. The idea of facing a 
group of fully-grown Mongos was goddamned terrifying. I didn’t know 
what floor these things normally lived on, but I hoped we’d never have to 
face them. 


We still had plenty of light left by the time we reached the medium-sized 
settlement. 

From a distance, the town looked similar to the last one. But the closer 
we came, I saw a few distinct differences. The town was easily four times 
the size. And the buildings were much bigger. 

And then there were the NPCs. A little more than half of them were 
skyfowl. Eagle-headed humanoids who could fly. This is the same type of 
creature Mordecai was before he’d turned into a shapeshifter. I’d seen the 
photograph of his brother in his apartment, and there were a few of them in 
Odette’s audience. But this was the first time I’d really gotten the chance to 
look at them. 


They were smaller than I’d expected. The average male was about five 
and a half feet tall, so just below the average human in height. But, more 
oddly, they didn’t have separate arms. They had large wings with little 
finger bones protruding from the center joint. It appeared they mostly used 
their large talons as hands. The eagles swooped about, flying just under the 
ceiling, circling around, going about their day, and doing whatever 
medieval-style eagle people did. 

Other NPCs, including humans and orcs, also wandered through the 
town. The town guards were the same walking suits of armor. I pulled up 
the map, found the closest tutorial guild, and we headed straight for it. 

As we walked, I caught sight of multiple crawlers. Most of them saw us 
and froze. A few waved and called out. Donut preened at the attention. I 
was currently level 18 and Donut was 15. Most of these guys hovered 
around levels 10 to 12, and most didn’t have any stars by their names. I 
wondered how the hell they were still alive. Donut wanted to stop and talk 
to them. I did, too, but we had so much to do. 

“Look, look!” Donut said just before we entered the tutorial guild. 
Mordecai’s door was attached to a small, non-descript building a street over 
from a bustling market. A few players were coming and going out of the 
room, though I knew when they entered, they were transported to a different 
instance of the guild. 

I followed Donut’s pointing paw. She indicated a tower rising into the 
air from a street we hadn’t yet ventured. At the tip of the tower was a 
familiar, rotating symbol of a knife. The large, art deco-style sign was out 
of place in the primitive fashion of this town. Under the knife in tall, thin 
letters, the spinning sign read “The Desperado Club.” And under that, in 
smaller letters it read “So fun it hurts.” And then “Members only section + 
public pub.” 

“I’ve always wanted to go clubbing,” Donut said. She looked at Mongo. 
“Do you want to go dancing with mommy?” 

The not-so-little dinosaur squealed. 

“Something tells me they won’t let Mongo in there,” I said as I pushed 
at the door to the tutorial guild. 

I paused before going in. I spent the moment looking out at the world, 
marveling at the sights and sounds of this large town. Everything was 
happening so fast. I had a sudden, inexplicable feeling of longing wash over 
me. I wished this was all over. It doesn’t take much to make him happy, Bea 


had said to her mom. It was true. I wondered what level we had to get to 
before they’d allow us to settle in a town like this. 

“What kind of nightclub doesn’t let your children in?” Donut grumbled, 
oblivious to my sudden reverie. “We’ll just see about that.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 13 ] 


Time to level Collapse: 5 days, 10 hours. 


Views: 1.4 Quadrillion 
Followers: 30 Trillion 
Favorites: 6.2 Trillion 


THE FIRST THING I DID As I SETTLED INTO MORDECAI’S CHAMBER WAS 
collapse into one of the classroom chairs. I’d been awake all night, and I 
really needed to get some sleep. The weight of the past 24 hours suddenly 
crashed down on me. I watched Mongo, equally exhausted, walk straight to 
the fireplace and sit in front of it. I could tell he wasn’t yet used to his larger 
size, and it took him several moments to get comfortable. He eventually 
settled on his side, like a dog. 

Mordecai transferred back to his own room a minute after we arrived. 
He arrived with a loud pop, and the drink in his hand sloshed onto the floor. 
The incubus cursed loudly at the sudden, unexpected teleportation. I’d 
forgotten to warn him. Whoops. Even though he was drinking, I could tell 
he wasn’t nearly as trashed as last time. 

“Oh thank the gods,” Mordecai said, putting down the drink. “You’re at 
the medium settlement? I was getting sick of that small town. They only 
had three bars, and I’d been kicked out of two.” 


“So, when you go out there without us, it’s going to be that skyfowl 
town now?” I asked. 

“That’s right,” Mordecai said. “Since I’m now a manager, for me, it’ll 
match up with the last place Donut entered. If I was still a standard guide, 
Pd be able to dial it wherever I wanted.” He sighed wistfully. “There’s a 
guide-only town you buggers can’t get to. I was really looking forward to it. 
Don’t forget, I’ve been on this planet for decades. During the preparation 
stage, we can’t mingle so much. So it’s only when a dungeon is active do I 
get to see some of my friends.” 

I felt a short wave of guilt for making Donut pick the manager benefit. 
But then I remembered we’d probably be dead already if we hadn’t picked 
It. 

“Why aren’t you puking drunk?” Donut asked. She jumped up on 
Mordecai’s shelf and sniffed the drink. The flagon had “The Boll Weevil 
and the Chowder Pub” written on it. She crinkled her nose. “I thought your 
kind can’t drink.” 

Mordecai shrugged. “I had to make a potion that negates the effects of 
alcohol on demon spawn. It’s simple stuff. Then I dilute it at 43%, and it 
makes it so the alcohol works as intended. Almost.” He frowned. “I think I 
need to add a bit more dilution next time.” 

“You’re really into potions, aren’t you?” I asked. 

“Yes. While I focused on fire magic, I also spent a lot of time working 
on my alchemy. I was a mycologist on my world. I studied fungus. It was 
something that held great interest for me, and the two go hand-in-hand. The 
sixth floor, even though it’s considered an urban level, is very thick with 
vegetation. Odette made me spend a lot of time learning about that stuff 
when we made it to that floor.” 

“Huh,” I said. Donut looked at me sharply the moment he said that. 
She’d understood the significance of that last sentence the same moment I 
did. Neither of us said anything. 

“I have a shitload of achievements and boxes to open,” I said. “I also 
have 12 stat points to assign.” 

“Do the stat points last,” Mordecai said. “See what sort of gear you’ve 
gotten. It’s getting too late to hit the stores today, but we’ll do that in the 
morning.” 

“The first thing I’m going to do tomorrow is buy pants,” I said. “I may 
not be able to wear shoes, but if we’re eventually going to go to a jungle 


level, I’m gonna want my legs covered.” 

“Also, we want to go to the club,” Donut said. “Is it only open at 
night?” 

“The Desperado Club will always be open,” Mordecai said. “It won’t be 
too hopping on this floor. On the sixth and ninth floors is where it gets 
really interesting. Pll tell you guys about it tomorrow. Don’t go tonight. 
Carl needs rest. For now, open your boxes, and then you need to find a pub 
with open rooms. You can’t sleep here. You’ll want to watch the recap 
episode. You missed the one last night.” 

“Were we on it?” Donut asked. 

“You were, and I reckon you’ll be on it again tonight after what you two 
just pulled.” 

“Was there an announcement?” I asked. “I don’t remember hearing it.” 

Mordecai nodded. “It happened while you were still conked out in that 
elite’s lair. You didn’t miss much. There were a lot of patch notes, but I 
don’t think you have to worry about any of them. There’s a Golem spell 
that’s not working properly, so if you come across it, don’t use it. Oh, and 
they introduced something called collective bidding for sponsorships, but 
she didn’t explain it very well.” 

Mordecai had said the number of achievements we’d receive would 
Start to wane when we got to this floor, but I had over 20 of them, the most 
Pd ever received at one time. Many of them were related to fighting the 
boss while solo and completing the quest. A few of the achievements of 
note were: 

New Achievement! One Quadrillion! 

You are one of the first ten crawlers to have achieved one 
quadrillion views! That means one of two things. You’re either one of 
the best crawlers in the game, or you’re such a hot mess people can’t 
wait to see you fail. 

Reward: You have received a Gold Fan Box! 


Admin Note: You have received your first Fan Box. Fan boxes contain 
items that are voted for by those who follow your progress. Once a box 
is received, you may not open it for thirty hours while the fans vote for 
the contents. 


Donut also received the same achievement. She was literally hopping up 
and down with excitement over it. Mordecai was telling her not to get her 
hopes up while I moved onto my next achievements: 


New Achievement! Yellow-Bellied Chickenshit! 
You initiated a boss battle, and it somehow ended with neither of 
you dead. What a disappointment you are. What a goddamned smear. 
Reward: Pussies don’t get prizes. 


New Achievement! Johnny Quest! 

Not only have you been given a quest, but you actually completed it 
without dying. We like it when you do what you’re told. It means 
you’re a good dungeon citizen and not a traitor to your people at all. 

Reward: In addition to the Gold Quest Box you’ve received for 
completing the quest, new quest locations will sometimes appear on 
your map. Notice how I italicized “sometimes”? 

The next one was even more interesting. 

New achievement! Hadji! 

You have completed a quest, but you completed it in a way unusual 
enough to trigger the Hadji Achievement! And like the oft exploited 
street children of Kolkata, where there’s one, there’s usually more. This 
is one of the rare achievements that can be rewarded more than once. 

Reward: Your Gold Quest box has been upgraded to a Platinum 
Quest Box! 

“There’s another level past that, too,” Mordecai said after I described 
the Hadji achievement. “I don’t know what they call it this season, but it’ ll 
double upgrade your prize.” 

Donut also received the Hadji upgrade. I watched as she opened her 
boxes. She’d received a bunch of the usual items from the lower-tier boxes 
along with a few random objects like colorful bows and collar charms not 
as good as her butterfly charm. The system said she could only have one. 
The hair bows also couldn’t be worn unless she took off her crown, which 
we couldn’t allow her to do. 


She opened the Platinum Quest Box, and it held 5,000 gold along with 
two items. A skill potion and a pair of “Fang Caps.” 

“Both are great items,” Mordecai said, nodding. “Those teeth caps don’t 
go well with Donut’s fighting style, however. You should either sell them, 
or you might want to consider giving them to Mongo. Most gear can’t be 
swapped with your pets, but some items can. This is one of them. Also, 
teeth caps come in pairs, and your dinosaur can wear up to six pairs of these 
things. It’s something unique to his type.” 

While Mongo’s face was mostly the beak of an overgrown chicken, 
when he opened the beak, a row of sharp, ripping teeth circled the interior. 

The skill potion gave her level three in something called Acute Ears, 
which didn’t just improve her hearing, it vastly increased the information 
that appeared on her minimap regarding not-yet-identified mobs. Basically, 
if she saw a red dot on her map, it now told her how large the mob was, and 
if it was a type of mob we’d already run across, it would tell us with 
“somewhat-reliable” accuracy. 

Donut immediately drank it down. She pulled the twin, metallic metal 
caps from her inventory and allowed me to inspect them. They looked like a 
pair of loose vampire teeth. 

Enchanted Fang Caps of the Expectorating Tizheruk 

This is a Fleeting item! 

Fun fact. There is not a single dentist from your world left in the 
dungeon. A few made it to the first floor, but every single one of those 
fuckers is now tits up. There’re a few hygienists left, but I wouldn’t 
want to rely on those chuckleheads. What I’m getting at is that you 
need to install these yourself. Make sure they’re facing the right 
direction. You can always take them off, but this is a fleeting item. That 
means they disappear once they’re off. So don’t fuck it up. 

Turns two of your incisors into ripping, tearing, deadly chompers 
that would impress even the most self-hating goth. 

Increases melee bite damage by 50% 

Each bite attack has a 25% chance to inflict a level-five Poisoned 
status. 

Each bite attack has a 10% chance to inflict a level-five Paralyzed 
status. 

“Pm totally giving this to Mongo when he wakes up. Carl, you’ll have 
to put them on him.” 


“Are we sure that’s a good idea?” I said. I eyed the still-sleeping Mongo 
uneasily. He hadn’t chomped down on Donut or me in a couple days, but he 
snapped at the both of us. A lot. Both Donut and I were immune to poison, 
but not paralysis, as we’d both learned the hard way when Signet had 
captured us before. 

Mongo chomped at the air in his sleep. It sounded like an axe splitting 
wood. 

I sighed and moved to my boxes. I had several more than Donut did. 
She harrumphed at that. I could tell she was pissed that I was now three 
levels above her, but she hadn’t actually said anything out loud. In fact, I 
had received a Lucky Bastard box for surviving Signet’s initial attack on us, 
but Donut hadn’t. She received the same Lazarus achievement, but instead 
of the box, her reward status said, “You’re lucky to be alive. That’s your 
reward.” None of us were sure why. Mordecai suspected it was because 
Donut’s health had zeroed out while Mongo was defending her, and she’d 
been saved by her Cockroach skill. But that didn’t make sense to me. 

It’s just one of those things,” Mordecai said. “Get used to it.” 

I started sifting through my rewards. I received multiple sticks of goblin 
dynamite and smoke bombs. I also received a whole box of hobgoblin 
dynamite along with three globs of Hobgoblin Pus—the remote-controlled 
explosive detonators—in the bronze boss box from my fight with Heather. 
I’d never seen hobgoblin dynamite before. The sticks were white instead of 
red. They had a larger yield and were much more stable. 

I'd also been receiving a lot of random odds and ends lately that were 
simply labeled “Trap Supplies.” They all went into my inventory. Mordecai 
warned me not to mess with that stuff until I had my sapper’s table set up. 
“I don’t know too much about trapmaking, but I do know it’s just as 
dangerous as handling explosives,” he said. 

Pd been expecting another lottery ticket in my Lucky Bastard box, but 
instead I received a single casino chip. 

“Holy cow,” Mordecai said, snatching it up before it could get sucked 
into my inventory. He held it up to the light. “I’ve never even seen one of 
these before.” He continued gawking at it as my Platinum Quest Box 
opened up. 

In addition to 5,000 gold coins, I received a single scroll. A scroll of 
Upgrade. I immediately read the description. A 20 minute timer appeared 
over the scroll the moment I picked it up. 


Scroll of Upgrade! 

Warning: This item has a short shelf life. 

Maybe it’s not as good as getting something new, but sometimes it’s 
better to just take something you’re already comfortable with and 
improve upon it. Kind of like buying your girl new tits. 

Once you read this scroll, one random, currently-equipped item will 
receive an upgrade. That upgrade could be small. It could be huge. But 
since this item has a short shelf life, you gotta do it now or forever hold 
your peace. 

“T hate these short shelf life items,” I said. 

Mordecai was still peering at the casino chip. “They do that because if 
they didn’t, you could hold onto it and save it for a really deep level, 
making it more valuable than they intended.” 

“Can I just take everything off except one item?” I asked. “If I wanted 
them to upgrade my ring, can I remove everything but that?” 

“Yes, but I wouldn’t,” Mordecai said. “I’ve seen people try that several 
times, and the upgrade is never very good when they do that.” 

“Okay, I’m just going to do it now then,” I said. I pulled the scroll into 
my hotlist and activated it. 

My Enchanted BigBoi Boxers glowed. I read the description. And then I 
read the description of the new benefit I’d just received. 

I looked up at the ceiling. “You motherfucker,” I said. “Well played, 
asshole.” 

Mordecai barked with laughter. “Those things are probably now your 
most valuable item.” 

The upgrade was actually pretty awesome. But it came with a terrible 
catch. 

Enchanted BigBoi Boxers. 

This item has been Upgraded once. 

All right, you already know the description of this item. Something 
something Incredible Hulk, blah, blah, blah. Now you want to know 
how this item has been upgraded. Right? So here are the original 
benefits of these naughty little undies: 

+ 2 to Constitution 

Wearer may cast a level 15 Protective Shell once every 30 hours. 

That’s some good shit right there. But we can do better than that. 
Here’s a few additional benefits. 


+ 5 to Dexterity 

+ 5 to Intelligence 

+ 3 more (for a total of + 5) to Constitution 

+ The Freeballing Benefit 

The benefit’s description was: 

Freeballing 

And I’m freeeeee! Freeee Ballling! 

Usually reserved for monk classes and those too soused to reliably 
dress themselves, recipients of this benefit receive an additional 100% 
damage bonus to all attacks that originate below the waist. In addition, 
all skills that originate from below the waist train 20% faster. But as 
the name implies, this benefit allows only a single layer of armor or 
clothing to cover your crotch area. And since you’re already wearing 
these, it looks like you won’t be getting trousers anytime soon. 

Mordecai was still laughing. “You shouldn’t have said you really 
wanted those pants.” 

“What? What?” Donut asked. Mordecai explained it to her, and she, too, 
started laughing. They both laughed so hard Mongo woke up and started 
bouncing around the room excitedly. 

“Oh this is delicious. Positively delicious!” Donut said. “Don’t worry, 
Carl. Maybe the next box will contain leather chaps. You can still wear 
those. Those would really frame out your feet.” She looked up at the 
ceiling. “Can you imagine how sexy Carl would be in chaps?” 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. 

I took a deep breath and waited for both of them to stop howling. For 
the first time in days I really craved a cigarette. I tried changing the subject. 
“These benefits are way better than the ones we received on the previous 
level.” 

“Yeah,” Mordecai said, finally calming down. He handed me back the 
casino chip. “You’re eventually going to start seeing items that increase 
your stats not by numbers, but by percentages. That’s why it’s crucial to 
build your stats now. And yov’ll see weapon damage modifiers that are a lot 
higher, too. It gets a little crazy on the lower floors.” 

Mordecai: Also, I don’t want to risk saying this out loud, but as 
you’ve just seen, once your brand gets established, they start to shift 
the type of gear you get. They like it when you get new equipment and, 
believe me, you’ll be getting all sorts of new stuff, but they don’t want 


you completely changing your look overnight. Usually you don’t start 
seeing these scrolls until deeper, but you two already have a name for 
yourselves. You’ll be receiving a lot more of these Upgrade scrolls. That 
was a really good one. Most won’t be that potent. 

“So, what is this thing?” I asked, examining the poker chip. It was black 
with pink, then purple, then pink splotches staggered along the edges. A 
familiar dagger logo adorned the center. The chip felt as if it weighed 15 
pounds. 

“Oh yeah,” Mordecai said. “So, you’re rich. Maybe.” 

100,000 Gold Coin Casino Chip. 

This is a comp chip, and it may not be sold or transferred. You may 
not redeem this chip directly for gold. This chip must be played at the 
High Roller’s Roulette Table or the Wheel of Fortune game at the 
Desperado Club Casino. 

Good luck. 

“Roulette?” Bea always loved roulette. I would sometimes play 
blackjack, but I was one of those guys who got pissed off after I lost just a 
few bucks, and if I won, I would quit immediately. I wasn’t much of a 
gambler. 

“Tt’s not roulette like you know it. Go get some sleep. Tomorrow night 
PII take you both to the club and show you how that place works.” 

“Can you get in?” Donut asked. 

“Don’t you worry about that,” Mordecai said, grinning. “They know me 
there.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 14 ] 


THE MOMENT WE STEPPED OUTSIDE OF MORDECAI’S GUILD ROOM, I PULLED 
up the town’s map. I looked for the smallest pub I could find. I found one a 
few blocks away that didn’t appear to be along any main roads, so we 
headed toward it. I had been so desperate to find other people when we first 
arrived into the dungeon, but for now I just wanted to sleep. The way the 
other crawlers pointed and gasped when they saw us, it wasn’t something I 
could deal with. Not tonight. 

Mongo kept biting at the air. Getting the two chompers on him had been 
easier than I had expected. The way the system had described it, I thought it 
would be a difficult procedure, but both of the golden fangs had resized 
themselves and snapped easily into his mouth, clicking into place like they 
were Legos. He’d patiently allowed me to do it, whimpering like a dog 
getting his nails clipped. It’d only taken about five seconds. Now when he 
snapped his teeth, little tendrils of electricity exploded from his mouth. It’d 
scared him so much at first he’d actually peed himself, which had caused 
Mordecai to devolve into a torrent of arm-waving shouts and swears. But 
once Mongo realized the electric bites didn’t hurt him, he spent every 
moment afterward chomping the air and grunting with excitement at the 
little sparks. 

It wasn’t quite dark yet, but we stuck to the center of the street. Skyfowl 
continued to sweep through the air above us. Most of the buildings in town 
were at least two levels, and many featured large, open windows so the 
fliers could come and go as they pleased. In fact, some buildings appeared 
to be completely empty on the first floor while businesses and restaurants 
filled the higher levels, all catering to the eagle folk. 


Most of the shops were now closed, curtains tight, so we couldn’t even 
window shop. Before we left, Mordecai reiterated his warning to stay out of 
the alleys when it was dark. The guards remained on patrol, but I knew they 
would soon disappear. The city became a free-for-all at night. I wanted to 
be settled well before then. I could only handle so much drama and violence 
per day. 

The pub was called The One-Eyed Narwhal, but the logo was of a fat, 
bald human unzipping his pants, grinning lewdly. 

“Carl, this place looks disgusting,” said Donut. Most of the buildings on 
this street were in various stages of disrepair. I didn’t see any eagles here, 
either. It was mostly orcs, ogres, and humans. “There was a place back there 
called the Hot Schnitzel. It looked much more inviting. It had flowers out 
front.” 

“This place will be fine,” I said as I opened the door, looking about. The 
pub was almost empty. A single orc NPC sat in one comer, drinking. The 
place was set up similarly to the last pub. There was a bar and the three 
televisions. It smelled of beer and grease. My eyes caught the player 
countdown and I sighed. 

649,433. 

That was tens of thousands of people dead since the last I’d looked, but 
at the same time, that number had slowed profoundly. The people who’ve 
made it this far mostly know what they’re doing now. 

The pub only had four rooms available, and they cost 20 gold each, 
much more expensive than the last place. But we had plenty to spare, and I 
still had no idea whether or not we were being ripped off. To my surprise, 
the proprietor wasn’t a Bopca, but a human. He was a large, bald, level-30 
man named “Fitz.” He was the person depicted on the exterior sign, though 
the real-life version was twice as fat. 

“Your majesty,” Fitz said as we approached the counter. “What a 
pleasure. What an absolute pleasure. I’ve never had royalty in the Narwhal. 
Not once. Are you just dining tonight, or will you require a room as well?” 

“Why, hello, Fitz,” Donut said, jumping on the counter. She rubbed her 
paw along the wood and then looked at it, a sour expression on her face. 
“We require two rooms. One for Carl and myself, and one for...” Mordecai 
popped into the room, right on cue. The incubus said nothing and 
immediately moved to the bar. He leaned over to gaze at the line of bottles. 
“And one for this gentleman. What are your fish selections this evening?” 


As Donut and the human discussed our dinner, I sat down at a table. I 
watched Mordecai as he waited to order his drink. We couldn’t get away 
from him, and he couldn’t get away from us. I hadn’t really thought too 
much on the implications of the manager benefit from that angle. That was 
going to get really old really fast. 

Pd thrown ten of my stat points into strength and two into constitution. 
My strength without the gauntlet was now 30. I was literally as strong as six 
regular humans, and that had a way of messing with your mind. I grasped 
the edge of the thick, wooden table. It felt solid, like any normal hunk of 
aged wood. I squeezed, and I felt the possibility there. I could rip a hunk of 
wood off the edge if I wanted. I felt the potential of my power. The whole 
thing was just so surreal. 

“Now don’t be giving this guy any of your potions,” Donut said as they 
sat at the table. Mongo ran across the room and started sniffing at the orc in 
the comer, but the large creature—a woman orc, actually—ignored the 
dinosaur. He grunted indignantly and returned to us. 

The recap show came on just as our food was delivered. Donut received 
some sort of halibut thing, Mordecai a bowl of soup, Mongo a plate filled 
with raw meat, and I got a hamburger that tasted suspiciously like it came 
from Burger King. 

The recap didn’t show anything too interesting, though they were now 
focusing on a few crawlers I hadn’t before seen. One was a guy with an 
alligator head and what looked like a Mossberg mag-fed shotgun. He never 
seemed to run out of shells, and I wondered what the story was there. 

“I’m more concerned with how he gets that T-shirt on and off with such 
a giant head,” Donut said. 

They also showed the goat lady that Mordecai had told us about a while 
back. She’d entered the dungeon with 15 goats and managed to keep them 
all alive for a while. Now it appeared she only had five left. She remained 
human, and she’d clearly chosen some sort of mage class. Three of the 
burly brown and white goats remained unchanged. In my late teens, before 
Pd joined the military, the home had made us all get jobs, and I’d spent the 
summer working on a small farm that had multiple types of goats, including 
these guys. Boer goats. They were bred for meat, not dairy, I remembered. 
The bucks were heavy fuckers, heavier than they looked. It had taken three 
of us to lift one of them. 

The other two remaining goats had changed. 


“Tt looks like she got two of those enhanced pet biscuits,” I said. I 
remembered the description had said that eating the biscuit could have 
varied results. 

“Three, actually,’ Mordecai said. “They showed what happened last 
night. The third biscuit didn’t go so well for her. Or several of her goats.” 

One of the goats was decked out in armor and walked on two legs 
alongside her. It appeared the goat had undergone a similar transformation 
as Donut, though I wasn’t sure if it talked or not. It wielded a double- 
headed axe and occasionally screamed for no reason. 

The last goat had transformed into a satanic monstrosity straight from 
the depths of a nightmare. 

“My word,” Donut said. “I could’ve turned into one of those?” 

Mordecai grunted. “That’s a hellspawn familiar. Carl probably would’ve 
been better off if you had.” 

I laughed and Donut made an indignant cat sound. 

The thing was a horse-sized, multi-breasted, pitch black goat monster 
that looked like it belonged on the cover of one of those 1980s heavy metal 
album covers, one where if you played it backward, the words would tell 
you to murder your grandma. The face still had the distinctive shape and 
horns of a male boer goat. It continued to walk on all four legs, but the 
thing was huge, and a group of six human-like breasts grew down the front 
of the creature. The entire thing had turned black, except the eyes, which 
glowed red. A constant wave of steam rose from it. 

We watched as the hellspawn charged at a group of hyena-faced 
creatures and trampled them to death. 

“Hellspawn are some of the best, most powerful pets in the game,” 
Mordecai said. He looked down at Mongo. “No offense. But if she can keep 
that thing alive, she’s gotten it early enough that it’ll level pretty high. Itl 
eventually grow wings and will be the size of a damn dragon.” 

“Holy shit,” I said. “Is it too late to get another one of those biscuits and 
give it to Donut?” 

Mordecai laughed. 

I watched in awe as the show aired a quick, fifteen-second montage of 
Mongo defending Donut. The dinosaur had killed dozens of the street 
urchin things. 

“Good boy. Look, Mongo! You’re on TV!” Donut said. The pet jumped 
up and down. He no longer squeaked. Now he grunted. The amount of 


enthusiasm he showed was the same, but it no longer had the same effect as 
before. Having a kitten-sized dinosaur bouncing around you with 
enthusiasm was cute. Having a mastiff-sized one do the same was not. 

I was shown, but only for a few seconds. The show didn’t really explain 
how I'd escaped. 

“Don’t worry about that, lad,” Mordecai said. “Based on your numbers, 
everyone knows. The actual scene is the property of the Vengeance of the 
Daughter production, which is why they didn’t show much.” 

“I was asleep the whole time.” Donut pouted. “They barely showed me 
at all.” 

“Sometimes even the side characters need their own episodes,” I said. 
That seemed to mollify her. 

While Donut still had many more followers than me, my view count had 
actually caught up with hers. I wasn’t sure which one of us hit one 
quadrillion first. I didn’t know if she’d noticed this or not. I hoped not. 

The announcement wasn’t too exciting. Just more of the same old stuff. 
There seemed to be as many bugs on this floor as they had when the 
dungeon first opened. 

“Just wait until you get to the themed floors,” Mordecai said. “It’s the 
equivalent of opening an entire theme park filled with rides and roller 
coasters without ever having tested a single one of them. Last Borant 
season, the entire fourth floor was inside of some unseen, living creature, so 
the crawlers were moving around intestines and whatnot. The floor was 
open for 20 days, and the creature they created for the level ended up with a 
fast-moving bacterial infection that spread over the entire dungeon. The 
walls started caving in on themselves and filling with gore, all 
unintentional. That didn’t play so well with the viewers, so they probably 
won’t do that again.” 

The woman orc who’d been drinking alone approached our table. She 
was an older woman, and she swayed on her feet. She instantly reminded 
me of an orcish, well-muscled version of Agatha. Her medieval-style shirt 
was Stained red with blood, making her look like a butcher who’d forgotten 
to wear her apron to work. She wasn’t the same skin tone as the Maestro. 
The tooltip simply called her a Level-5 Orc NPC. Her name was GumGum. 

“I see you’re adventurers,” GumGum said, leaning in. “I really need 
your help.” 

“No. Fuck off,” Mordecai said. “Not tonight.” 


“You don’t have to be rude about it,” the woman said and she turned 
away. She staggered back toward her table. 

“What was that?” I asked. 

“A quest,” he said. “Pubs like these will always be filled with people 
giving garbage quests. And we’re not doing any more quests on this floor. If 
you look on your minimap, there’s probably a little star on top of her icon.” 

“There’s not,” I said. “It’s just a white dot.” 

“Well, not all quests show up on the map. Now we’re all going to go to 
bed.” 

“Fine,” I said, watching the woman settle back into her chair. The orc 
hung her head low, put her face into her hands, and she began to weep. 


At this point, one might expect that I waited for Mordecai to go to bed, and 
then I sneaked out of my room, went to GumGum the orc, and asked her 
what she needed help with. 

One would be right. Almost. 

The moment we went to our room, I couldn’t stop thinking about her. It 
was stupid, especially after Mordecai had explicitly told us to just leave it, 
but I couldn’t get the sight of the woman crying out of my mind. I told 
Donut I needed to use the restroom, and I went back out there. 

Mordecai sat at the bar, drinking and chatting with Fitz the barkeep. 
GumGum was gone. 

“She left already,” Mordecai said after I returned from the restroom, 
having pretended I used it. “Look, kid. Let me give you some advice. I want 
this to sink deep into your thick skull. You can’t save them all. The people 
running this, they know who you are. They will always be baiting you. 
Worry about yourself first. If you truly want to help others, your best bet is 
to get as strong and as deep as possible.” 

I didn’t respond. I returned to the room. Donut peered down at me from 
the top of the cat tree. 

“Did you get the quest?” she asked. 

“Holy shit, am I that predictable?” I asked. 

“Sometimes,” she said. And we went to sleep. 


The first thing we did the next day was—finally—start to check out some of 
the town’s shops. 

“Here’s today’s plan,” Mordecai said. “You shop. Then you spend the 
day grinding. You find a neighborhood boss. You kill it. You get back here 
before dark. Afterward, if you’re not too tired, then we go to the club. You 
do not go to the Desperado Club without an escort.” 

“Yay!” Donut said. “Today is going to be the best day ever. Shopping 
and clubbing! And then tomorrow we go on another interview.” 

“One thing at a time, Donut,” I said as we opened the door of the shop. 
This place was called Lucky’s General Goods. A bell tinkled as I pushed 
the door. Dust swirled, and I sneezed. 

Entering Shop. 

Mostly-empty shelves spread along the walls. Behind the counter stood 
a skyfowl. The level-30’s name was Edge Dancer. He clicked his beak at us, 
blinking rapidly. 

“Okay,” Mordecai said. “This is a general store and it’s the most 
common kind of shop you’ll find. The more specialized type shops, like the 
armorers and potion shops are usually only found in settlements. You will 
find random shops such as this one scattered around the dungeons from 
now on. Carl, your Charisma is pretty good, and you will usually get a good 
price. But you are no Donut. Always leave the negotiations to her. She will 
get you the best prices, and she will sell your items for the most.” 

“That is because I am a master shopper,” Donut said, strolling into the 
shop. She looked about with disdain. “This place doesn’t have the greatest 
selection, does it?” 

“You’ve never been in a store before in your life,” I said. I picked up a 
familiar item off the shelf. It was a coconut. A tooltip popped up, though it 
was shaped differently than usual. 

Coconut. 

21 Gold. 

This is food. I think. Humans do something with it. Dunno, really. 

“This is important,” Mordecai said. “As you can see, the descriptions of 
the items in the shops are not provided by the system AI. The shopkeepers 
are responsible for labeling everything. The rules state that they can’t lie, so 
they can’t sell you something labeled as a health potion when it’s really 


poison. But they are allowed to exaggerate. And they will. Luckily for you, 
Donut, you will usually be able to get an accurate description out of the 
shopkeeper as long as your Charisma is higher than their level. You’ll want 
to practice your haggling and negotiation skills each time you enter a shop. 
Once you train it enough, most items will give you a warning if the 
description is too overstated.” 

“I take offense, demon,” Edge Dancer said. The eagle glared at 
Mordecai. “If you knew the skyfowl people, you would know we never 
cheat our customers.” 

Mordecai laughed. “Skyfowl merchants will always try to cheat those 
without wings,” he said. “My people can be a bit xenophobic. And they’ll 
act indignant when you call them out on it.” 

Edge Dancer started to say something, but he abruptly snapped his beak 
shut when Donut jumped on the counter. “You are a handsome fellow,” 
Donut said. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen a bird as strong-looking as you.” 

The eagle stood straighter. “Thank you, your majesty. Is there anything I 
can help you with today?” 

From there, we proceeded to sell a handful of the non-magical, useless 
crap from our inventory. These guys didn’t have unlimited money like some 
merchants did in games. We had to move to five different general stores to 
get rid of most of our stuff. Mordecai told us to hold onto the jugs of 
moonshine, but our extra weapons and random items went to the merchants. 
Donut was, indeed, a master negotiator. While she ordered the pub owners 
around like indentured servants, she treated the shopkeepers with pure 
sweetness and sugar, and they loved her for it. 

“Is that the best we can do today, sweetie?” she asked yet another 
skyfowl proprietor. This one’s name was Talon Strong. He looked 
thoughtful as he considered buying a pile of spears we’d looted on the first 
floor from the raccoon-headed scat thugs. 

When Donut had used her Character Actor skill to choose the Artist 
Alley Merchant class as the one to emulate on this floor, it had come with 
multiple skills and benefits, including a huge discount for buying items. 
Unfortunately, because of the way the Character Actor skill worked, she 
hadn’t received the extra discount. She did, however, receive the extra 15% 
one received from selling items. And she flexed that skill to the best of her 
ability. She was in her element. 

“T can give you an extra five for the lot,” Talon Strong said. 


“You’re the best!” Donut said, and the eagle preened. 

“Pm starting to think you actually had this all planned out when you 
picked that class,” I whispered as we walked from the store. 

“Of course, I did,” Donut said. “I knew we’d be selling everything on 
this floor, so I picked that merchant class. Miss Beatrice didn’t call me 
Princess Money Bags for nothing.” 

“Pm pretty sure it was ‘Princess Money Pit.’ She called you that 
because we spent more on you than we did for our rent.” 

“Well, obviously that investment paid off, didn’t it Carl?” 

“Think of general stores like 7-11s,” Mordecai said, interrupting. We 
now had a pool of about 50,000 gold, which apparently was pretty good. 
“They’re convenience stores. You buy from them as a last resort. They’re 
fine to sell stuff to because they’ ll take almost anything, but even with your 
discounts, you’ll pay three times as much for the basics. So, if you want 
potions, go to a potion store. You want spells, go to a spell store. If you can 
find one. Also, some guilds will sell stuff, too.” 

This particular town didn’t have a spell store. There were dozens and 
dozens of places, but most of it was useless to us. We needed magical gear 
and items to increase Donut’s constitution, but there just wasn’t any of that 
here. There were several potion stores, however, and Mordecai made me 
purchase 10K gold worth of alchemical supplies. 

We bought one additional item. We spent 15,000 gold on a magical pet 
carrier for Mongo. Neither Donut nor Mongo were too hot on the idea, but 
Mordecai pointed out that her pet wasn’t properly resting at night. It 
appeared the dinosaur now felt obligated to protect us in our sleep, despite 
being in a safe room, and it was negatively affecting his stats. The carrier 
would allow him to rest. Plus, Mordecai added, no pets were allowed in the 
Desperado Club. They had a “playroom” for familiars, but their safety 
wasn’t guaranteed. Donut finally relented. 

The device was actually kind of cool. It was a square brown box the size 
of a Rubik’s Cube. It had a symbol etched on the outside that looked like a 
fire hydrant. When Donut pulled it from her inventory, she could activate it, 
and Mongo would get zapped in there. He’d sleep and regain his strength 
while he was in the cube. She could call him back out with a press of the 
button. 

“Later, you may get a mount that works in a similar fashion,” Mordecai 
said. “When merchants sell mounts, they usually come with a rudimentary 


pet carrier.” 

“What’s the difference between a mount and a pet?” I asked. 

“Some pets can be both, but plain mounts tend to have low life points 
and little to no personality,” Mordecai said. “You can have as many mounts 
as you want, though they’re usually expensive. And you have to feed them. 
Mounts don’t level or grow stronger.” 

After we shopped, Mordecai walked us to the edge of town. “No quests. 
No elites. Kill mobs. When you find a boss, make sure it’s a neighborhood 
boss and nothing bigger. Keep in touch. Get back here before dark.” 

“Easy,” Donut said. 


And believe it or not, the next several hours were relatively uneventful. We 
found a cluster of these creatures that looked like a cross between floating 
squids and umbrellas. They had a psionic attack, but because of our high 
charisma, we weren’t affected. They were called brain boilers, and they 
were upgraded versions of the mind horrors we’d briefly faced on the 
second floor. They moved slowly and were easy to kill. A few of them 
dropped ink pouches as loot, which Mordecai got pretty excited about. 

I alternated between punching and kicking attacks. Mostly punching 
with these guys. Mongo easily ripped them to shreds, and we had to hold 
him back as he’d become a serious experience hog. 

Donut alternated between her Magic Missile attacks, Second Chance, 
and Clockwork Triplicate. I would also cast Fear, but the spell wasn’t too 
effective against them. 

I did manage to level my Iron Punch skill up to ten with the gauntlet 
bonus. The tenth level of the skill added something called the Breadbasket 
effect. Basically, if I landed a solid blow to the mob, there was a 10% 
chance to stun it for several seconds. 

The neighborhood boss fight could’ve gone south pretty quickly, but 
thanks to Donut’s new Acute Ears skill, we knew it was lurking around the 
corner when we approached. The monster was called the Dispenser, and it 
looked like a giant manta ray thing. It blended in with the entire side of a 
building and tried to drop on us as we passed. We’d been ready, and Donut 
attacked with two reanimated Brain Boilers. Once it’d peeled itself off the 


wall, we had a clockwork Mongo run at it with a stick of dynamite in each 
hand. The whole fight lasted less than a minute. 

The real Mongo screamed in dismay at the suicide attack, but Donut 
managed to keep the pet under control. We added that move to our 
playbook. We called it “The Boomy Boy.” As long as I could keep my 
supply of dynamite healthy, it was a super-effective anti-boss attack. 

By the end of the fight, Donut had leveled up to 16. I was still at 18, but 
teetering on 19. Mongo hit level 11. We’d all nudged a few of our skills up, 
as well. 

As we turned back toward the town, I spied a single white dot of an 
NPC and a large group of X’s on the map one block over. This was just 
outside of town, right past the wall. As I watched, the white dot disappeared 
into town and then returned a few moments later. A new X appeared next to 
the NPC. Just on the other side of the fence, within the city limits, stood a 
pair of guards. So whatever this was, it couldn’t be something too 
untoward. 

“Let’s go check that out,” I said. 

“It smells really bad,” said Donut. Mongo grunted in agreement. We 
turned down the street and edged our way toward the NPC. 

“Oh, Carl,” Donut said as we got closer. “Did you know she would be 
here?” 

“No,” I said. “But the system knew we’d be coming this way.” 

It was GumGum the orc. I watched as the large woman easily tossed a 
dead body onto a pile of other bodies in the middle of the street. It was a 
mix of humans, orcs, elves, and dwarves. There were about fifteen of them, 
all piled on top of one another. 

I attempted to examine one of the dead NPCs, but the system helpfully 
grouped them all together for me. 

Pile of Dead Hookers. 

Well, isn’t this awkward? 

Sure enough, all of the corpses appeared to be female. All of them wore 
provocative clothing. They were all contorted and bent in odd ways, as if 
the manner of death had been by a giant picking them up and twisting them 
like dish rags. One of them, a dwarf, didn’t appear to have a head at all. The 
whole pile oozed with mud-like gore. 

“So,” I said, stepping forward. GumGum startled and whirled on me, 
“this isn’t something you see every day.” 


“Adventurer,” she said. She wiped her hand on her shirt. It left a smear 
of brown. “I was hoping to catch you on your return today. I spied your 
party leaving this morning.” 

“And you thought to greet us with a mountain of rotting prostitutes?” 
Donut asked. “I’m not sure where you’re from, but the cultured amongst us 
no longer use corpses as icebreakers. Next time maybe just bring Carl a 
milkshake. He likes milkshakes.” 

“These are the women I’ve found today,” GumGum said. “Something is 
killing them, and we don’t know what it is. And we don’t know who these 
women are, either. They’re not from this town. We find them in the alleys, 
scattered throughout every morning. Most of their blood is removed from 
their bodies.” She wiped her hand on her pants. “But not all the blood. We 
pile them up outside the gates, and the street urchins take care of them. But 
we find new ones every day. Sometimes it’s just one or two, but sometimes, 
like last night, it’s a lot.” GumGum took a deep breath, and I realized she 
was holding back tears. “It’s not right. The skyfowl don’t care as long we 
move the bodies out. The guards don’t work at night. But these were 
people, and they’re just dead. And I don’t know why. Can you help me?” 

“Uh oh,” Donut said just before the notification came. 

New Quest. The Sex Workers Who Fell from the Heavens. 

Prostitutes. Escorts. Street Walkers. Ladies of the Night. 

It doesn’t matter how you describe them because these chicks are 
dead. Very dead. And every morning, several more of them appear 
scattered throughout the village. Nobody knows who they are or where 
they come from. Find out why. 

Reward: You will receive a Silver Quest Box. 

“Silver?” Donut said. “The last quest was a gold box.” 

“The last one involved a couple elites and a city boss. This one must be 
easier,” I said. I leaned in and examined one of the dead women. This one 
was a human. She had distinctive wounds on her shoulders. I’d almost 
missed it because her entire body had been twisted so her pelvis faced the 
wrong way. The orc next to her held the same injuries. All the pale bodies 
seemed to glow in the dying light of the day. 

“Well, Mordecai is going to be upset,” Donut said. 

“We’ll see what we can do,” I said to GumGum before we turned back 
into town. After we passed through the gates, I thought of what Mordecai 
had said the previous evening. You can’t save them all. 


“Don’t worry,” I said to Donut once GumGum was out of earshot. “We 
had a good day today. I’m not going to let it get derailed by a quest.” 
“That’s what you said last time,” said Donut. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[25 .J 


Entering the Desperado Club 


THE FIRST ROOM OF THE LOUD, GARISH DESPERADO CLUB WAS OPEN TO THE 
general public. It was packed. 

The exterior of the building looked straight out of 1920s New York City. 
It was all square, concrete columns with a semi-circular relief punctuated 
by triangular, sun-like rays, similar to the construction style of the top of the 
Empire State Building. The club took up an entire street and rose a good six 
stories into the air. The glowing, neon knife logo spun above that. 

“This place seems much too big for this town,” I said as we stepped past 
a bored-looking rock monster bouncer and into the main room. 

“There are two main clubs in the Over City,” Mordecai said. “The 
Desperado Club and Club Vanquisher. Generally, once you have access to 
one, you’re not allowed in the other. This one is easier to get into. Club 
Vanquisher is more like a country club where old clerics sit on leather 
chairs and smoke pipes and occasionally tell racist jokes. This place is like 
your Las Vegas Strip mixed in with Mardi Gras and the discos of the 
1970s.” 

“This sounds much better,” Donut said. She did that little neck bob 
before she jumped up on my shoulder, and I knew she was overly excited. 

“Oh, believe me, it is,” Mordecai said. 


“T want to try one of Miss Beatrice’s favorite drinks. Either a Sex on the 
Beach or a Long Island Iced Tea. Or that one. What is it, Carl? She always 
says it’s her Kryptonite.” 

“A Dirty Shirley,” I said. 

“Yeah, I want to try that one.” 

“Cats don’t drink cocktails,” I said. 

“Cats don’t shoot lasers from their eyes, either, but here we are, Carl. 
Mama needs a night off.” 

We followed Mordecai as we walked through the busy pub. Multiple 
NPCs and actual crawlers littered the room. It felt as if all eyes were on us. 
The crawlers watched us. The NPCs stared at Mordecai. 

“Mongo would love this place,” Donut said wistfully from her perch on 
my shoulder. The dinosaur had screamed furiously when Donut had pulled 
out the pet carrier. 

“He probably would,” I said. I eyed one of the burly, rock-skinned 
bouncers standing in the corner. “But we aren’t going to find out.” 

“This first room is exclusive to this town,” Mordecai said. “Any local 
can come here. You do not need a pass. Crawlers who’ve yet to obtain 
access can come here and pick up quests to win themselves a tattoo.” 

We approached a red, glittering door at the back of the room. We pushed 
our way through and found ourselves in a small vestibule leading to another 
door. Sitting in a chair in front of this second door was a lizard-faced 
monster. This was the same race of creature as that crawler we’d seen on 
the recap show, the one with the shotgun. 

Clarabelle — Crocodilian. Level 40. 

Employee of the Desperado Club. 

This is a Non-Combatant NPC. 

Crocodilians are an intelligent, thick-skinned, semi-aquatic race. 
They tend not to be the sharpest tools in the shed, but they’re certainly 
more intelligent than their smaller cousins, the Troglodytes. They are 
inclined to work as muscle or enforcers for both legitimate and not-so- 
legitimate organizations throughout the universe. 

“Hello, Mordecai,” Clarabelle said. “You know that disguise can’t fool 
me.” 

“Tt’s not a disguise when I have no control over it,” Mordecai said drily. 
Then a huge smile spread across his face. He leaned forward and kissed the 
bouncer on both cheeks. “What’s it like in there?” 


“Dead. But there’s more people than there were last night.” The bouncer 
looked at me and then Donut in turn. “I’ve seen you two on the recap show. 
Where’s your pet?” 

“Mongo?” Donut asked. “You know about Mongo? He’d be so excited 
to meet a fan! He’s in a pet carrier. Do you want me to take him out?” 

“No. Do not let him out. I’m glad you have a carrier. The pet room is 
currently out of order. We don’t want another incident like last night. I see 
you two both have a pass. The bar and dance floor are open. The casino 
isn’t ready yet, but you can probably find a card game if you look hard 
enough. We’ll open it up in a few days.” 

“Thanks, Clarabelle,’ Mordecai said, patting her on the shoulder. He 
tossed her a gold coin. We went through the door. 

“Holy shit,” I said a moment later, gazing upon the room. I had to shout 
to be heard. “This is considered ‘dead?’” 

There had to be 200 people of all shapes and sizes in the first room. 
Pounding dubstep filled the nightclub. Seizure-inducing lights flashed. The 
floor shook. Smoke rose from all corners. 

Mordecai made a circle in the air with his finger, drawing a halo over 
himself. A translucent bubble formed over his head, making him look like 
he was wearing Zev’s spacesuit helmet. He motioned for me to do the same. 
I twirled my finger in the air, and a circle formed, covering my head. Donut 
also repeated the gesture, waving her paw in the air. 

The moment the bubble formed, about 95% of the pounding music 
filtered out. I could still hear it, but it was now background noise. A new 
sound emerged. I looked about, and a small portion of the people in the club 
had the bubbles on their heads. I could hear them talking amongst 
themselves, as if we were in a moderately-busy cafe. 

“There are a few types of privacy bubbles,” Mordecai said. “This is the 
most basic. You can talk to anyone in the room without having to shout. 
Most clubs give access to this or similar spells.” 

“Weird,” I said. I poked at the bubble with my finger, and it popped. 
The pounding music returned, startling me. I quickly reformed it. 

“This is the main room of the Desperado Club,” Mordecai said. Several 
rooms led off to different areas. Most of the rooms were labeled with 
floating neon signs, all in that same 1920s, speakeasy-style font. The whole 
place gave off a retro-futuristic, Blade Runner vibe. Of the 200 people 
filling the dance floor, almost all of them were NPCs. I did see a few 


bewildered-looking crawlers wandering about. My map also showed the 
distinctive white dot with a cross, indicating a few elites that trawled the 
dance floor. 

“This room,” Mordecai continued, “exists on a different plane as the 
outside of the club. It’s the same thing as my guildhall. The moment you 
come into the members-only area, you are in the same room as everyone in 
all the club locations throughout the entire level. So these crawlers you see 
come from all corners of the Over City. But when you leave, you’ll come 
out where you came in. You cannot use the club as a fast travel location. 
Usually.” We approached a booth. The four elven NPCs sitting at the table 
jumped up. They popped their bubbles and moved to the dance floor, 
allowing us to sit down. 

“Most of these NPCs are bots,” Mordecai said. “The club will always 
appear as if it’s full of people, but that’s just an illusion. If it’s a young, buff 
or beautiful half-naked creature it’s likely a bot. They’re not even real 
NPCs. You can dance with them. You can even bang them if you have the 
gold. But they can’t hold more than a rudimentary conversation, and they 
don’t exist outside the club. The moment a real NPC or crawler enters 
through the door, one of the bots disappears, and vice versa.” 

“Weird,” I repeated, looking about. I counted about ten crawlers and 
three elites. Each of the three elites were engaged in conversation with 
crawlers. I felt my hackles rise at that. 

Donut jumped to stand on the table. “How did you get in here so 
easily?” she asked. “Do you also have a tattoo?” 

Mordecai nodded. “I had a pass early on. They know me here now.” 

A blue-skinned woman NPC in a privacy bubble came to stand over the 
table. She didn’t have a name or level floating over her. It just said 
Waitress. “Drinks tonight?” 

“I want a Dirty Shirley,” Donut said. “And you have to put it in a bowl.” 

“Certainly, your majesty,” the waitress said. 

“Do you have earth alcohol?” I asked. 

“Absolutely, hun. What can I get you?” 

“Bring me a bottle of bourbon.” 

The woman raised an eyebrow. “That can either be a ten gold request or 
a 1,000 gold one. That ain’t covered by your drink coupons.” 

“Let’s keep it around 50.” 


She nodded. My eyes caught the haze of smoke filling the large room. It 
flashed in the light. It didn’t smell right, but I felt a familiar tug in my chest. 
“Wait, do you sell cigarettes here?” 

“Absolutely not,” Donut said. “He’s not allowed to have cigarettes.” 

The waitress shook her head. “I’m sorry, hun. We don’t have earth 
tobacco. We have blitz sticks, however. Would you like me to send a 
pharmacist over?” 

I had no idea what a blitz stick was, and the last thing I needed was a 
new addiction. 

“No, that’s okay,” I said, sighing. 

“Actually, who’s the pharmacist on duty?” Mordecai asked. “Is it 
Quint?” 

“Quint is working, yes.” 

“Send him over,” Mordecai said. “And Pll take a flagon of Empress's 
Mead.” 

“Very well,” she said, wandering off. 

“What the hell is a pharmacist?” I asked. “And what’s a blitz stick?” 

“Oh, he’s just a drug dealer,” Mordecai said. “And stay away from blitz 
sticks. They’re hallucinogens, and they’re highly addictive. Magically 
addictive. You don’t want that.” 

“Then why are we summoning a pharmacist?” 

“He’s an old friend,” Mordecai said. 

“Are we Safe here?” I asked as we waited. 

“This place isn’t a saferoom, though the security here is pretty good. 
But only in this room. This place has a lot of nooks and crannies. The 
bouncers aren’t in the other areas, except the casino.” 

I looked up at the neon signs leading off to other areas. Three signs 
were unlit, but I could still read them. One read Casino, one read The 
Hunting Grounds, and the third was Guild-O-Rama. Of the lit signs, they 
were Bitches, Penis Parade, Jobs, The Silk Road, and Restrooms. 

There was a ninth door, but there was no sign over it. A rock monster 
guarded the entrance. I watched as a waitress emerged, and I realized it was 
the room to the back. 

Pd noticed the Bitches and Penis Parade signs first, and Pd assumed 
they led to the restrooms until I saw the actual restroom sign. “So, what are 
these places?” I asked. 


“Bitches is the female strip club and brothel. Penis Parade is the same 
thing, but for those who prefer dudes. Don’t go in either of those places, 
especially not on this floor. You’ ll get shanked. Plus viewers tend to ridicule 
the crawlers who go in there.” 

I immediately thought of that new quest with the prostitutes. Mordecai 
had just shaken his head when we told him about it, and then he’d told us to 
ignore it. The quest would go away the moment we left the floor. 

“...Jobs is a place to get quests,” Mordecai continued. “These tend to be 
NPC assassinations and theft-themed gigs. The silk road is a marketplace. 
We’ ll go in there in a bit. Guild-O-Rama holds several rogue-themed guild 
rooms, including an explosives guild. There are guilds available on this 
third floor, but the more specialized ones don’t become available until later, 
so that section isn’t open yet.” 

“Wait, will the Desperado Club be available on the lower levels? Like 
four and five? And are those really stairs to the Hunting Grounds?” 

“Yes, and yes,” Mordecai said. “But the club will be harder to find on 
the fourth and fifth floors. When you go in, you’|l find yourself back here in 
this room, just like my guildhall. Those stairs to the Hunting Grounds open 
up once you hit the sixth floor. You can only come back up to this floor 
once you get to the sixth floor. That Hunting Grounds level is much bigger 
than this one. Something else interesting happens once the crawlers hit that 
floor. I’ll explain that later.” 

I watched as a group of three human crawlers were led away into the 
Bitches room by an elephant-headed elite who stood about seven-feet tall. I 
had the urge to get up and tell them to stay the fuck away when the waitress 
returned, pharmacist in tow. 

The waitress placed our drinks in front of us. I received a glass and a 
bottle that was suspiciously missing a label. Donut received a bowl with a 
bright-red vodka drink. A trio of maraschino cherries floated within. She 
sniffed at it and made a face. 

I barely noticed our drinks. Instead, I stared at the small, floating drug 
dealer, Quint. 

The top half of Quint was that of a sharp-toothed, beady-eyed opossum. 
The bottom half of the creature was a whirling dervish, like he was halfway 
being swallowed by a miniature tornado. It twisted and turned on the floor, 
and I could feel the wind blowing off the small cyclone. Unlike the 
waitress, this guy had a description. 


Quint — Level 75 Half-Djinn, Half-Garbage Scowl 

Desperado Club Pharmacist 

This is a non-combatant NPC 

Half-Djinns are common amongst the Hunting Grounds and other 
forested levels of Dungeon Crawler World. Nobody knows for certain 
why there are so many hybrid Djinns out there, but one theory suggests 
that a rather ill-timed expletive is the cause of the population explosion. 
It is posited that a person in control of a Djinn’s lamp and the resulting 
three wishes once exclaimed, “Fuck this forest” or “Fuck this level” or 
“Fuck you all” or some iteration thereof, and the enslaved genie took 
that as a challenge. As a result, thousands of half-Djinn, half-forest 
creatures roam the dungeon. Only a few are intelligent. Only a few are 
sane. They are all dangerous little fuckers. 

If you kill too many of them, rumor has it their daddy may come 
looking for you. 

“I have lost count of the years, old friend,” Quint said, looking 
Mordecai up and down. He had an unexpectedly deep and growly voice, 
like he was a British street kid trying too hard to sound like Batman. “I 
thought you were supposed to be free several seasons ago. I was a little sad 
you hadn’t come to say goodbye.” 

“Hello, Quint,” Mordecai said. “I’m on manager duty. This is Princess 
Donut, and she is my ward. This other fellow is Carl, who is in Donut’s 
party.” 

“Pleased to meetcha both,” Quint said. “Mordecai here used to be one 
of my best customers in the early days. So, a manager, huh? That’s pretty 
lucky. I’m jealous. It’d be nice to be immortal for once.” He stopped, 
looking up into the air. “Oh shuddup, I ain’t telling ‘em nothing they don’t 
already know.” 

“Quint here is a former crawler like myself,’ Mordecai said. “He 
actually chose this as a race. He’s from a... an orcish world, right? I don’t 
remember. Wait, don’t answer. I don’t want you to get in any more trouble 
from the AI.” 

The drug dealer shook his opossum head. “Being a manager is a sweet 
gig, I gotta tell you. No AI breathing down your back.” He looked up in the 
air. “Because that nanny can be a right bitch sometimes.” He pointed a 
clawed finger at my chest. “You two don’t bother trying to make a deal on 
the tenth floor, you hear me? If I could do it again, Pd push my way 


through to floor eleven. But you, pretty girl,” he said to Donut, “you got 
yourself the most knowledgeable manager in this game. You listen to what 
he says, okay?” 

Donut looked at Quint through half-slitted eyes. “Who are you again? 
And why are you floating?” She looked at me. “Carl, is that a talking 
anteater?” 

Ah shit. 

“You’ve taken like two licks of that drink, and you’re drunk already?” I 
asked, examining her properties. 

“I didn’t like it. I just ate the cherries. Vodka is gross.” She reached 
down and lapped up some more of the drink. “I am absolutely not drinking 
this bile.” She took yet another sip. 

“Don’t worry. Quint here has a potion to snap her out of it,” Mordecai 
said. “Don’t you?” 

“I sure do, mate,” Quint said. “Need anything else? My menu is mostly 
the same. I’m more expensive than those gits over in the Silk Road market, 
but my stuff is better.” 

“Your stuff is definitely better,” Mordecai agreed. “But Donut’s 
charisma is 76, and she has a merchant class, which means we’ll be buying 
it at a quarter of the price you sell it for.” Mordecai, ever the teacher, turned 
to me and said, “Charisma bonuses don’t work on half-genies.” 

“Tt’s Djinn. Not genie, mate,” Quint said. “You know how I feel about 
that.” 

“Pll tell you what,” Mordecai said. “You still offer the starter kit? And 
you up for a trade?” 

Quint’s beady eyes grew even smaller. “I do indeed. But I wasn’t 
expecting anyone to be able to afford one until the fifth or sixth floor. What 
can you possibly have to trade this early?” 

Mordecai sent me a quick, private note. A moment later two bottles of 
Rev-Up Moonshine appeared on the table. I’d been using them quite a bit in 
battle, but I had a stash set aside to sell. I still had 23 bottles left, not 
including the two on the table. I also had another ten boom jugs left in my 
inventory. 

“No way,” Quint said, sniffing the bottle. “That Krakaren bitch said no 
more of the stuff was being made this season.” 

“They were making it,” Mordecai said. “And Carl and Donut here are 
the reason why it was shut down. They have the last of it.” 


That wasn’t exactly true. At least one other crawler out there had gotten 
their hands on some. I hadn’t received any royalties since the first few 
coins, but it meant someone had come across a few bottles and had made 
boom jugs. 

“Make it four bottles, and we have a deal,” Quint said. 

“We’ll give you three, and you also give me the potion to stop the world 
from being wavy,” Donut said sleepily. I hadn’t even realized she’d been 
paying attention. “Oh, my word. Carl, I think I might vomit. You didn’t 
warn me about this.” She took another drink and then started growling at 
the bowl. 

“Deal,” Quint said. 

“Wait, what the hell are we buying?” I asked. 

“A starter kit,” Quint said. “It’s a suitcase filled with everything you 
need to start your own pharmaceutical empire. You’ ll be the dungeon’s next 
kingpin, mate. Just don’t be selling in my territory.” He shot at me with a 
pair of finger guns. 

“Trust me,” Mordecai said. “I ain’t buying all this stuff for giggles. I’m 
putting together a library for you.” 

“You need a table?” Quint asked as we made the trade. He had a 
merchant-style inventory, similar to my own. The suitcase was actually a 
large chest. I had to move my bottle out of the way for it to fit on the table. 
It was filled to the brim with chemicals and herbs. Mordecai opened it up 
and started sifting through it. 

“An alchemy table?” I asked. “We already have one.” 

“Suit yourself. You need anything else? Word on the street is you’re 
looking for earth tobacco. I don’t have any right now, but Pll keep an eye 
out for you.” 

“Hey,” I said to the opossum as Mordecai rummaged through the box. 
“What happened last night? The bouncer said there was an incident with a 
pet or something?” 

“Oh yeah,” Quint said. “It was crazy. This woman came in here. A 
crawler like you. I can’t remember what her race was called. It was 
something I’d never seen before. She was human, a real looker but with one 
goat leg. Anyway, she had two pet dogs. She put them in the playroom, and 
they went bonkers. The monsters killed two attendants plus another pet, and 
then they broke out onto the dance floor, snapping and biting and snarling. 
The bouncers moved in, but their owner cast a spell that froze the whole 


room. I’ve never seen anything like it. A crawler from the third floor 
casting magic that powerful. Anyway, while the room was frozen, she stole 
a couple bottles of tequila from behind the counter while her dogs made a 
chew toy of a few dancers. Then she took out a mace from her inventory 
and splattered the brains in of an elite gnoll who’d been talking to her. 
Luckily she didn’t kill any of the real bouncers. You should’ve seen this 
place afterwards. The playroom ain’t gonna open back up for a week. She 
got away, but she ain’t coming back. Her membership has been revoked, 
thank the gods.” 

“Holy shit,” I said. “That’s Lucia Mar.” 

“Those dogs sound just awful,” Donut said, her voice slurring. “Bitch- 
ass rottweilers. Almost as bad as cocker spaniels. Think they’re so smart.” 

Goddamnit, Donut. “Don’t be saying that stuff,” I said. 

“I don’t see any brin root,” Mordecai said, his head still stuffed in the 
chest. 

“Yeah, it’s hard to come by,” said Quint. “I gave you two vials of bujold 
Sap instead. It’s more stable anyway.” 

Mordecai grunted and shut the case. He nodded, and I pulled out a third 
bottle of moonshine. They quickly disappeared as I pulled in the large case. 
An anti-alcohol “Hair of the Dog” potion appeared, along with three 
licorice sticks. 

“On the house,” Quint said, grinning, indicating the three sticks. “It’s 
not your earth tobacco, but you might want to give it a try.” 

Blitz Stick. 

It’s like candy, but for your mind. If you eat this, your Intelligence 
temporarily rises by five points. If you smoke it, there’s a 15% chance 
your Intelligence will permanently rise by 1. 

There might be a side effect or two. Or three. 

Before Mordecai could object, I pulled the sticks into my inventory. I 
had no intention of using one, but you never knew what might be useful. 
Donut took the hair of the dog. She immediately sobered up. She looked 
down thoughtfully at the still half-full bowl of her alcoholic Shirley Temple. 
I pulled it out of her reach. 

She looked as if she might object, but then she sat up straight. “Carl, 
Carl, I just got a notification. It says I can now open my fan box!” 

“Okay, we’ll do it when we’re done here,” I said. A moment later, I 
received the same notice. 


Mordecai and Quint chatted some more, but I could tell Mordecai was 
done with the conversation. The real reason he’d wanted to come here was 
obvious. He was collecting a war chest of potion-making supplies, all in 
preparation for the fourth floor when we would be able to set him up with 
an alchemy table. 

I skipped the glass and drank from my bottle of cheap bourbon while 
Donut popped her noise bubble and moved to the dance floor. The bot 
NPCs laughed and clapped as the small cat leaped around the floor. A large 
ogre NPC hopped around her, and she jumped to his shoulder, and they 
twirled about the floor for several minutes, both of them laughing 
hysterically. 

Mordecai and I watched for a moment, neither of us saying anything. 

“Why were you so upset when Donut chose you as a manager?” I asked 
Mordecai. “Are we really that awful?” 

Mordecai didn’t answer at first. He looked down into his drink. “It’s not 
you,” he finally said. “It’s complicated. When I’m done being your 
manager, Pll still be free. I will get my stipend, and I will make my way 
across the universe.” 

I felt relieved. I hadn’t even realized it until he’d said it, but I’d been 
thinking perhaps we’d inadvertently sabotaged his efforts at getting free. 

“But that’s what you said would happen anyway,” I said. 

“I know,” Mordecai said. He looked up and gave me a grim smile. 
“Like I said, it’s complicated and it has nothing to do with you.” 

“That dude said you’re immortal now. Is that true?” 

“Sort of,’ Mordecai said. “You know how Zev wears that ridiculous 
armor when she visits? It’s because there is no protection for staff on the 
first three floors. Nobody knows why. It’s likely a cost thing. But starting 
on the fourth floor, the system-based protection kicks on. Not for you, of 
course. For the employees. And the tourists. Plus a few select NPCs, 
including the managers.” 

“So, it’s like being in a saferoom, but everywhere?” 

“No,” Mordecai said. “In the saferooms, you’re protected from attacks, 
and those who attack you are punished. You are kept from being injured. 
This system-wide protection is something different. It’s both better and 
worse. It’s worse because you can still be wounded, and you can still feel 
pain, and you can still die. It’s better, though, because when you do die 
under system protection, you don’t really perish. You’re just kicked from 


the game. Your body is transferred out of the dungeon. Before, as just a 
guildmaster, I wouldn’t be offered any sort of security. It’s just part of the 
deal. Nor am I protected right now, not for the remainder of this level. But 
starting on the fourth floor, managers such as myself are given a protection 
package. It’s the same thing the tourists playing Faction Wars will have on 
the ninth level. I can still be killed, but I won’t really be dead. I’ll just be 
kicked from the game. So as far as you and Donut are concerned, my 
immortality is irrelevant.” 

“But why are managers protected when guildmasters aren’t? That 
doesn’t make any sense,” I said. “I would think it’d be the opposite.” 

He shrugged. “In the early days, managers were allowed to fight 
alongside their wards. And when they died, they’d become available again 
on the next floor. That only lasted a season or two. Now, if I die as a 
manager I’ll be done for the season. And as long as Donut makes it to the 
fourth floor, my obligation will also be done. I’ll be free to go. They don’t 
protect the other NPCs, like the guildmasters or the merchants. Again, it’s a 
cost thing. There’s a whole lot of us. Of them. I think some bosses might be 
protected, because sometimes you have to face bigger versions later on. But 
that’s it.” 

Oh shit. “So, you can step in front of a murder dozer on the next floor 
and be done with all this?” 

“Yep,” he said. “Don’t worry, though. They incentivize us not to do that. 
The longer Donut survives, the more money I earn as a bonus. It’s written 
into the rules. The stipend I receive as a guildmaster is next to nothing. The 
money I get as a manager is significantly higher. The better you do, the 
more money I receive when I’m free. Every level past nine is just an 
obscene amount of credits.” He sighed, watching Donut. Her purple tiara 
glittered in the flashing lights of the dance floor. 

I kept coming back to my first question. Why was he upset about being 
chosen as a manager, then? And why did Odette know he was going to be 
pissed? I was missing something, something important, but I could tell he 
would broach no more discussion on the matter. Not now. 

“Let’s go check out the Silk Road Market,” he said abruptly. “The recap 
show is about to start, and they’Il stop the music for that. We’ll want to be 
out of here before the second half of the show. If they show you two on the 
program, the bots will swarm us, asking us for autographs and to dance. If 
that happens, we’ll never get Princess Donut out of here.” 


OceanofPDE.com 


[ 16 ] 


THE SILK ROAD WAS SET UP LIKE A FARMER’S MARKET. IT WAS A LONG, 
mostly-empty room with a single row of stalls. An eclectic mix of items 
filled the tables, but there was room for five or six more rows of booths. 

“This room is mirrored down on the next floor,’ Mordecai said as we 
entered. Donut sat on my shoulder, bouncing her head to the music that still 
pulsed through the wall. “Eventually both this market and the next one 
down will be packed with merchants. Not too many are out yet.” 

We walked past shops selling black, bubbling potions and round, 
magical items called “Spider Shields” that cost 200,000 gold. An eclectic 
mix of races manned the booths, from short goblins to tall, robed figures 
with four sets of pincers. 

A single booth sat in the back of the room, surrounded by five or six 
empty spaces. I knew exactly what the booth sold as we approached. 
Multiple notifications floated in the air over the items on the merchant’s 
tables. 

“There’s a double-sized booth normally set up next door to that one, but 
it won’t appear until the fourth floor. Those guys sell trap supplies. In the 
meantime, I wanted to make sure you were aware this was here,” Mordecai 
said. “The proprietor is a little odd, but she’s harmless. Now give me 500 
gold so I can check out that alchemist over there while you browse.” He 
paused. “You two need to make a good impression on this woman because 
you’ ll be seeing a lot of each other.” 

This store was called Hobgobs and Boom Sticks. I examined the 
proprietor. 

Pustule. Hobgoblin — Level 30. 


She was the first living hobgoblin I’d seen face to face. She stood about 
six feet tall, and she looked mostly like the hobgoblin sample I’d seen 
during race selection: a large, muscular goblin that got clobbered by the 
ugly stick. She had an open sore on her cheek that bubbled with black and 
green ooze. The pus ran off her face, down her shoulder, and stained her 
shirt, which was a threadbare, pink graphic tee featuring a unicorn wearing 
sunglasses. She smelled of rot and sickness. I swallowed. I still held the 
bottle of cheap bourbon in my hand. I took a drink to get the smell out of 
my sinuses. 

“Carl,” Donut whispered. “She’s ugly. Like really ugly.” 

“She also has excellent hearing,” the hobgoblin said, her voice 
surprisingly feminine. I winced. “Are you in the market for explosives 
tonight?” 

Her tables held multiple boxes of both goblin dynamite and hobgoblin 
dynamite, along with smoke bombs, detonators, and several odds and ends 
Pd never before seen, like flat, pancake-like explosives that were basically 
claymore mines. The yield and stability of the mines was impressive, 
though they cost 5,000 gold each. 

She also sold barrels of gunpowder and a few other chemicals, most of 
which I already had plenty of. A case of goblin dynamite held 25 sticks and 
cost 500 gold. The hobgoblin sticks were 20 for 2,000, which was highway 
robbery. 

“Two questions,” I said. “Do you sell smaller explosives? Preferably 
ball-shaped? Also, do you have smoke bombs that don’t suck?” 

She laughed. “Yes to both questions, though I don’t have it all in stock 
today. Goblin smoke bombs are crap. They don’t understand the chemistry, 
so what you get is a lot of smoke in a small cone for a short amount of time. 
They’re good in enclosed spaces, but if there’s any ventilation, you might as 
well just pull your dick out and point at it.” She laughed at her own 
nonsensical joke. There was an edge of crazy to that laugh, and I suddenly 
felt uneasy. “A hobgoblin smoke curtain works much better and is 
inexpensive, but I don’t have any right now. I normally carry round bombs. 
Hob-lobbers. Both impact-enchanted and fused. I only have a case of the 
fused ones in tonight. Yield is one-eighth a hobgoblin stick, or half of a 
goblin stick. It packs a punch, if you’re interested. I once watched my 
mother bite the head off of a vorpal muskrat. She said she did it to teach the 
warlord a lesson, but I’m pretty sure there was another reason.” 


She’d added that last part without pausing, as if it was just a natural part 
of the conversation. 

Donut: CARL, THIS LADY IS CRAZY. 

I decided it was for the best to just ignore that last part. “Okay, so, does 
impact-enchanted mean what it sounds like?” I asked. 

“That’s right. Dangerous to use, but Hob-Lobbing Lobbers use them 
almost exclusively. Don’t drop ‘em. Otherwise they’re pretty stable. The 
fused ones work like hobgoblin dynamite. Impact resistant, extra stable. 
You gotta light the fuse then toss them. Like I said, I have a case of those. 
25 for 500 gold.” 

I sent a quick message to Donut via chat. 

“What’s your best price on a case of the Hob-lobbers and two cases of 
regular goblin dynamite?” Donut asked. She jumped down from my 
shoulder and landed on the table. “Also, we’ll be back in a day or so if you 
promise to bring in some of those smoke curtains.” 

“Well, two cases of goblin dynamite and the last of the Hob-lobbers 
would be 1,500 gold,” Pustule said pleasantly. “I’m sorry if that price is too 
ugly for you.” 

“Oh sweetie,” Donut said. “I think we got off on the wrong foot. Let’s 
Start Over.” 

“Yeah, okay,” Pustule said. “We wouldn’t want anybody getting off on 
any feet.” 

Donut gave me a sidelong glance. “Well, it might be a little late for that. 
But we do want to buy stuff from you. And I think we’ll be buying a lot of 
stuff from you, so I would really like it if we could be friends?” 

“Friends?” Pustule asked. “I was friends with Tiff. The muskrat.” 

“Yes, friends,” Donut said. “Hopefully your mom won’t bite my head 
off, though.” 

“Oh, she died. It was a vorpal muskrat. You can’t bite the head off a 
vorpal muskrat without doing a little dying in the process.” 

From there, they went back and forth for a few minutes. Donut did not 
have the extra discount that automatically came with the Artist Alley Mogul 
class, but she still had that insane charisma, and she managed to talk the 
hobgoblin down to 1,000 gold for the lot. 

After that transaction was completed, I pulled one of my Boom Jugs 
from my inventory and placed it on the table. “Out of curiosity, how much 
would you give me for this?” 


She picked it up, examining it carefully. “Nice design,” she said. She 
rubbed the side of the bottle and made a whimpering noise, one I could not 
decode. Then she pulled the bottle close to her face and licked it. I looked at 
Donut and mouthed What the fuck? 

She snapped back to seriousness a moment later. “Your material cost is 
much too high. If you used a different accelerant, the effect wouldn’t be 
nearly so hot, but your build cost would be 90% cheaper. If you went out 
there and sold just the plain bottles of moonshine, itd be worth much 
more.” 

“So how much is it worth as it is?” 

“T’d probably sell these for about 7,500 gold. PII give you half that. You 
looking to sell?” 

“Not right now,” I said, taking the boom jug back. It was good to have a 
value reference in my inventory. I resisted the urge to wipe off the wet 
streak. “Thanks, though. It was good meeting you.” 

“PII have more for you tomorrow,” she said as we walked toward the 
exit. “Beware of meteors!” she called. 

“She wasn’t so bad,” Donut said as we left. “She just needs both a 
dermatologist and a psychiatrist. I can’t tell you how relieved I am you 
didn’t pick that race.” 

“Excellent hearing,” Pustule called from her booth, about 50 paces 
away. 

“Wow,” Donut said, looking over her shoulder. “You’d think someone 
who blew things up for a living would be deaf.” 

I pulled a hob-lobber out of my inventory. It was a hair smaller than a 
baseball, but it was dense and heavy. 

“Damn,” I said. “Too big for my slingshot.” 

“Nobody likes your stupid slingshot, Carl,” Donut said. 

“At your current strength, you can probably just throw this further than 
a slingshot anyway,” Mordecai said, coming to walk beside us. He handed 
me a pile of herbs and vials. “That’s what the Hob-Lobbing Lobbers do. 
They’re the Hobgoblin equivalent of a Bomb Bard.” 

We exited the market and hurried through the dance arena, which was 
now showing the recap episode. All of the dancers sat on the floor, 
watching the screen. They’d all gone eerily silent, and the scene was 
disconcerting. The next room with the locals was also displaying the show. 


A handful of crawlers watched while the other NPCs went about their 
business, pretending like there was nothing on the screen. 

“You two go ahead,” Mordecai said, eying the bar. “Pll catch up in a 
bit.” 

“You'll catch up whether you want to or not as soon as we get back to 
the inn,” I said. 

“T know,” he said. “I just don’t like missing any of the show. Sometimes 
they hide important stuff in there. PII see you back at the inn. Go straight 
there.” 


We stepped out into the night. Darkness had descended on the city, and the 
city guards had all disappeared. Still, it wasn’t too late, and the streets were 
still busy. A street vendor selling the cockroach-like scatterers on a stick 
remained open. It made me think of that first boss, the Hoarder. It seemed 
like a lifetime ago. Eagles soared above us, filling the sky. Music drifted 
from the open doors of several pubs. 

Still, the alleyways were now dark. Occasionally I’d see a flicker of a 
red dot. Donut said most of them were small, maybe rats. We stuck to the 
center of the street. 

The One-Eyed Narwhal was only a few blocks over. We didn’t really 
have to spend the night there again, but I liked that the place was much less 
busy than most of the other inns. We’d easily catch the end of the episode if 
we hurried. I hoped they’d show Lucia Mar and her dogs going apeshit in 
the nightclub. I really wanted to see that. 

“There you go, Mongy,” Donut said, releasing her pet back out onto the 
street. He formed right in front of us with a pop, like when Zev teleported 
into the room. “Did you miss your mommy? Mommy missed you!” The pet 
screeched in outrage and hopped up and down a few times, circling around 
us, waving his arms. 

“Oh, get over it,” I said. I pulled a pet biscuit from my inventory and 
tossed it at him. He snatched it in midair. He made a growling noise as he 
chewed, but I could tell he was placated. He then moved to my right side to 
walk next to me as Donut leaped to my shoulder. 

“He really is well-trained,” I said. “You’ve done a good job.” 


“Of course I have, Carl,” Donut said. “I am a product of the pageant 
circuit, after all. I’ve had plenty experience watching what does and doesn’t 
work when it comes to teaching obedience. Maybe when this is all over, I 
can dictate a book on the subject. You can type it all out for me. That 
reminds me, Zev and I have been talking about writing a new episode of 
Gossip Girl since...” 

And that’s when Mongo screamed in rage and rushed straight into the 
dark alley. 


“Goddamnit, Mongo!” I bellowed as I turned to chase the dinosaur. “And 
you stay put!” I yelled up at Donut as we rushed into the alley. “Don’t run 
ahead.” 

“Mongo! Mongo!” Donut cried as we ran. She cast her Torch spell, and 
the blazing light rose into the air, illuminating the squalid alleyway. This 
was more a substreet than a real alley, but multiple tributaries sectioned off 
of it, and Mongo turned down one such street. A group of red dots appeared 
along with an X of a corpse. 

Shit, shit. 

I also smelled fire. Like burning meat. 

We passed a pair of stinking rubbish bins. Ahead of us, a group of four 
figures loomed. Three of them were flying, hovering off the ground. The 
fourth was humanoid, tall and lean. This one held his hand in the air, and it 
burned, smoke pouring off it. It was the source of the smell. Mongo 
squealed and headed straight for the tall creature. 

I could also see the corpse. It was GumGum the orc. Her chest had been 
rent open. 

The flying creatures were floating, disembodied female heads. Their 
long hair flapped about them like sea creatures. What appeared to be the 
rest of the creatures’ organs hung loosely from the hole in the bottom of 
their necks, all connected with wet, limp tendrils of nerve, artery, and other 
viscera. Blood dripped freely. The three horrifying monsters screamed at the 
presence of Donut’s light, and they twisted and twirled up into the evening 
sky, corkscrewing and howling like banshees, their loose intestines and 
lungs swinging underneath them. 


They disappeared into the darkness, but not before their description 
popped up. 

Krasue. Level 16. 

Holy crap! These things are terrifying! Who comes up with this 
shit? 

Said to be the undead shell of a woman who lived a life of sin, 
Krasue roam the dark places, hiding their hideous true form. They are 
ravenous, and they devour the blood of the unsuspecting. In other 
words, these things are flying heads who are also vampires. And, they 
bring their organs along because... Well, nobody knows why. Probably 
just because it’s really gross. 

You may kill the head and trailing organs to fend her off, but this 
mob doesn’t truly die until you find and destroy the rest of her corpse. 
You will not earn experience for killing this mob until it is dead-dead. 
Not just dead. 

Warning: This is a ghost-class mob. They are only injured with 
magic or magical items. 

Mongo squealed and leaped at the remaining figure, the one with the 
burning hand, but the mob disappeared in a blink... 

...and appeared right in front of us. 

“The final battle is here!” the creature—an elf—squealed, his voice 
cracking. He cackled with laughter. His hand stopped trailing smoke. “You 
may have scared off the krasue, but you will not do the same to me! I have 
trained my entire life for this moment! I have used dark magic to lure your 
familiar into my trap! Carl and Donut, blasphemers! Prepare to taste the 
ultimate death!” His hands started to glow red. “Now watch as I...” 

I kicked him in the nuts at the same moment Donut’s magic missile 
slammed into his neck. The elf’s head ripped off as he was raised bodily off 
the ground. I felt my foot shatter his testicles and fracture his pelvis. The 
dead, now-headless elf rose into the air like a rocket. He splattered onto the 
ground in a heap, blood showering over us. His head tumbled like a poorly- 
inflated soccer ball, coming to a stop in front of Mongo, who picked it up 
and started shaking it back and forth like a squeaky toy. 

For a long moment, neither Donut nor I said anything. I slowly turned to 
look at the cat. 

“Who the hell was that?” I asked. 


OceanofPDE.com 


[ 17 ] 


I EXAMINED THE CORPSE OF THE ELF. I REALLY WISHED I’D DONE IT BEFORE, 
as the amount of information given was much less once they were dead. 

Lootable Corpse. Vincente. City Elf. Level 16. Killed by Crawler 
Grand Champion Best in Dungeon Princess Donut with an assist by 
Crawler Royal Bodyguard Carl. 

“Ha,” Donut said. “I got credit for the kill.” 

“Well, you did blow his head off. All I did was kick him in the nuts.” 

“Yeah, that wasn’t very manly of you, Carl. I thought nut-kicking was a 
big no-no amongst guys.” 

“Its not something I want to make a habit of doing,” I said. “But if it 
works, it works.” 

Zev: Yes, Carl. Try to avoid that if you can. A few viewers have 
made some snide comments. 

Carl: For fuck’s sake. I can really do without the random peanut 
gallery comments. 

Donut: I BET THE SYSTEM AI LIKED IT. 

Vicente the city elf had almost 1,500 gold in his inventory. He only held 
one other item. A scroll, which Donut took. It was for a spell called Meat 
Hooks. It was the spell he’d been casting that had caused Mongo to rush 
into the alley. 

“I knew he was good boy,” Donut said. “He’d been summoned. He 
couldn’t help it!” Mongo, still chewing on the elf’s head, grunted in 
agreement. The spell summoned all nearby carnivorous pet-class monsters 
away from their owners and to the source of the burning stench. 


“You’ll want to hold onto that one,” I said. “You never know when it 
might be useful.” 

“He knew our names,” Donut said, looking down at the corpse. “And 
did you see those gross floating things?” 

“Your light scared them away,” I said, looking up into the night. “Keep 
it going.” 

The elf didn’t have anything else in his inventory, but he did wear an 
oddly familiar shirt. This was a military uniform, and it looked out of place 
here in this town. It was a black button-up, and had it been blue I would’ve 
sworn it was a U.S. Coast Guard ODU, the same type of shirt Pd worn 
every day on active duty. 

“Carl, look,” Donut said. “There’s a patch on his arm.” She peered 
closely at it. “There’s two patches. A sew-on and a heat transfer. The arm 
one is hand-sewn with a chain stitch. It’s good work, but it clearly wasn’t 
made on a schiffli like the nameplate on the breast.” 

“What?” I said, looking down at the two patches. “What are you talking 
about? What the hell is a schiffli>?” 

“Huh,” Donut said. “I don’t know how I know. A schiffli is a type of 
embroidery machine. I must’ve watched a show about it or something.” 

The patch on the shoulder was in the shape of a shield, and it held a 
crossed lightning bolt and a magic wand being grasped by a talon with a 
tree in the background. It looked very much like a typical US military unit 
patch, but with the text in Syndicate Standard. It read 201st Security 
Group — Magical Ops. The second patch was a nameplate. It read Vicente. 
That was it. There was no grade insignia or anything else on the shirt, 
including any sort of indicator of what army this 201st Security Group was 
a part of. That particular missed detail made the shirt look fake, like it was 
more of a movie prop than a real uniform. 

I pulled the entire black shirt off the headless elf and tossed it into my 
inventory. I’d show Mordecai when we got back. 

We moved to examine the corpse of GumGum the orc. We’d seen her 
just a few hours before, piling the bodies of the prostitutes out of town. Her 
eyes Stared straight up, almost accusing. I’d told her we’d help, but I hadn’t 
meant it. 

Lootable Corpse. GumGum. Orc. Level 5. 

It didn’t say what had killed her, but based on the injuries—a ripped 
open chest, and no blood—I suspected she’d been killed by those three 


Krasue things. I shuddered. 

“Why did that weird guy say he’d been training his whole life to fight 
us? We’ve only been on this floor for a couple days,” Donut asked, 
mirroring my own thoughts. 

“Tt’s obviously a clue in that quest. All of this is some sort of ham-fisted 
setup to get us to investigate further.” 

Sure enough, GumGum’s inventory held four gold coins and two pieces 
of paper. One was entitled Gate Pass and the other was Mysterious Letter. 
I sighed and took them both. 

“She was a nice lady, for an orc,” Donut said. “She was doing the right 
thing. We have to finish the quest now.” 

“Why?” I asked. 

“Because they killed her. And they probably killed her because we got 
that quest,” Donut said. “If we hadn’t, she’d probably be in the bar right 
now waiting to ask someone else to help her.” 

Goddamnit, Donut. She was right. Of course, she was right. The orc’s 
lifeless eyes shone in the reflection of Donut’s Torch spell. She’s not real, I 
thought. She’s a prop, an extra in a high-stakes game show. 

But that wasn’t true, was it? She was a real, biological creature. What 
she believed to be real was fake, an illusion. But she was still flesh and 
blood, an innocent. And she was dead simply because it was part of the 
story. Just like with all those prostitutes. 

You’re not going to break me. Fuck you all. 

“I think I liked you better when you didn’t make so much sense,” I said. 

“Pve always made sense, Carl,” Donut said. 


We made our way back to the inn. I didn’t want to spend any more time in 
the alley. We’d missed the end of the show, and the announcement boomed 
over the city loudspeaker as we walked. It wasn’t anything new or 
interesting. Another day, another few bugs. Some druid spell was causing 
the supposedly indestructible wooden floorboards to evaporate, creating 
sinkholes and sucking people away, causing them to fall off the map and 
disappear. 


The inn was the same as the previous night. Where GumGum had sat 
the previous evening was now occupied by a pair of human NPCs, an older 
couple who quietly ate and talked amongst themselves. Fitz the barkeep 
grinned at us. “Returning customers!” he exclaimed. “Your majesty. It’s 
always an honor.” 

Mordecai was plastered by the time he teleported to the inn. He 
drunkenly instructed me in creating the Hair of the Dog potion. It involved 
a gooey weed that smelled like okra mixed with a vial of rubbing alcohol. 
My first attempt failed, but it worked the second time, garnering me a level 
three in alchemy. 

“T went too far the wrong way,” Mordecai said, shaking his head after 
he drank the potion. “But I was only expecting to be there for a few 
minutes. Did you see that centauress by the bar? She offered to buy me a 
few shots. Why’d you two take so long?” 

I told him what had happened as I made a few additional Hair of the 
Dog potions. Fitz offered us free room and board for the night in exchange 
for three of them. I had plenty of supplies. Since it didn’t require boiling or 
any higher-difficulty emulsifying, I could make the potions without a table. 

“A military uniform?” Mordecai said. “That’s odd. Let me see it.” 

“No,” Donut said. “We’ll show you in a minute. Carl and I have fan 
boxes to open. My people have spent a lot of time and effort on voting for 
and choosing this. I’m opening it now.” 

I exchanged a look with Mordecai, who’d warned us both a dozen times 
now that the lower-tier fan boxes were usually crap. While the boxes 
wouldn’t contain anything awful or physically harmful, the system- 
generated list of possibilities was often filled with random and sometimes 
nonsensical items. Trolls oftentimes got in on the voting, and the prize was 
usually the most ridiculous or useless item on the list. Mordecai said he’d 
received a skyfowl sex toy in his first box. Later, the fan boxes would be 
more significant with better items. This was a gold box, which meant fans 
had to have us on their favorites list in order to vote. But even these boxes 
were often corrupted. Fans had to pay actual credits to vote for the contents 
of anything higher. That fee to vote was next to nothing, but it was enough 
to keep people from casually gaming the system. 

“Here I go,” Donut said. I braced myself. The box opened, and Donut 
gasped. “Oh my gosh, Carl, Carl, look!” she said excitedly. 

I felt my stomach drop. You assholes, I thought. 


It was a small, framed picture. Of Bea. The square photo had been taken 
directly from her Instagram. It was the same photo that caused me to break 
up with her. In the picture, Bea wore a bikini. She was laughing. And she 
was sitting on her ex-boyfriend’s lap, her arm draped around his shoulder 
while she took the selfie. Brad was the guy’s name. He worked construction 
part time and modeled part time. I knew that because that was the only line 
of information on his profile. His Instagram handle was Brad_the_Chad69, 
possibly the douchiest name in the history of the world. He always did the 
male version of a duck face in his photos, and since I’d never met the dude 
in real life, every picture I’d ever seen of him made him look like he was 
taking a shit. 

“It’s great!” Donut said. “Oh my gosh. I love it so much! Zev was 
saying she wanted to see a picture of her. Look, Mordecai! It’s Miss 
Beatrice and her friend! Look, Mongo! It’s your grandmother! Fitz, come 
here and look at Miss Beatrice. Isn’t she pretty?” 

Mordecai didn’t look at the picture. He stared directly at me, a worried 
expression upon his face. 

I was expecting it to bother me. It didn’t, I realized. That felt important, 
almost monumental. At the time, I’d been upset. I told myself I didn’t like 
drama, and I dumped her. Which was the right thing to do. But I was still 
upset. Of course I’d been upset, and I lied to myself about how upset I was. 
But that was gone now. Really gone. After all that had happened, how could 
it possibly not be gone? And the realization was like a weight that I didn’t 
even know was there lifting off my shoulders. 

Donut’s reaction to the gift was more than a little worrying, but at least 
she seemed to enjoy the prize. It could’ve been much worse. 

I grinned, looking directly up at the ceiling. I gave a very deliberate 
shrug. “You really think I’d care about that? Nice try.” 

“Carl, open yours! Maybe it’s another picture!” 

I sighed, and I selected my box. If it was something awful, something 
designed to upset Donut, I was prepared to toss it into my inventory before 
she could see it. 

I wasn’t expecting the basket. 

“What the hell is that?” Mordecai asked the moment it appeared. He 
examined it, his eyes going wide. “Oh,” he said. “You got a good prize. The 
rabble-rousers must have spent all their effort on Donut’s gift.” 


“What are you talking about?” Donut asked. She looked at the strange 
wicker basket. It looked like a large, banana-shaped scoop. A group of 
buckles along with an unfamiliar strap were attached to the end of the 
object. “What is this thing?” Donut asked. She read the description. “I don’t 
get it. What’s... how is that pronounced? High lie? 

I didn’t need to read the description. The moment I saw the item, I knew 
exactly what it was. The buckles were unusual, but my brain was already 
processing how it worked. This was a good prize. In fact, this was a great 
prize. 

“Hey, Fitz,” I said. The barkeep had wandered over to look at the 
picture of Bea. He still clutched it in both hands, and he was rubbing a 
finger down the glass, stroking the image of Bea’s breasts. “Do you have 
any oranges?” 

He appeared startled, as if he realized we were still there. He quickly 
placed the photo down. “I reckon I do,” he said. 

“Give me four or five of them please,” I said. 

While he went to the back, I picked up the large basket. I ran my hand 
down it. While it appeared to be made of wicker, it was really made of a 
light, metallic substance. My mind raced with the possibilities. It was so 
strange. This knowledge was from that Earth Hobby Potion. It all came 
rushing to me. 

The skill P’d received had been in something called Cesta Punta. Pd 
thought it was a martial art. It wasn’t. It was a sport. A sport more 
commonly known as jai-alai. It was a complicated, fast-paced, squash-like 
game where people wore scoops on the ends of their hands and threw balls 
against a wall. It was dangerous as fuck, and even with helmets, those little 
hard balls bounced and flew fast enough to knock your damn head off. 

The gift Pd received in my fan box was called a xistera. It was the 
scoop a player wore on their hand. Normally there was a leather sleeve 
along the back of the handle that you could tighten, which would keep the 
basket from flying away. You used the scoop to catch and toss the ball, and 
because of the shape of the basket and weight of the ball, you could throw 
very hard and fast, especially if you spun and swung your arm in just the 
correct manner. 

I’d never played it in real life, though I’d known a senior chief who had 
something similar designed to lob tennis balls great distances. The thing 
was really for dogs, but he’d used it to toss cherry bombs off the side of the 


cutter out onto the glacial ice of the Arctic Ocean. He’d let me do it once, 
and I remembered how far it’d flown. 

And at that moment, I realized that small memory, of me tossing 
firecrackers onto the ice in the middle-of-nowhere was likely the impetus 
for the chain of events that led to this prize. Whether the system really knew 
my memories or not, they had a rather obvious plan for me. I no longer 
needed the slingshot with this item. This was better. Much, much better. 

I strapped the xistera onto my wrist, awkwardly using my teeth and left 
hand to fasten the first set of buckles. The second set went just before my 
elbow. The rounded scoop extended about two and a half feet past my right 
hand, almost like a single, massive fingernail. It felt natural on me. I 
wouldn’t be able to punch or summon my gauntlet while it was on me like 
this, but I could feel the plastic-like slit just above my palm. Anything I 
summoned into my hand from my inventory could be pushed directly into 
the scoop. And conversely, I could make a claw and remove the item in the 
scoop. 

The xistera wasn’t magical, at least it didn’t say it was, but it was 
mechanical and made with some pretty neat technology. It had a trick. The 
second strap just below my elbow had a small pull-ring. I pulled it, and the 
entire scoop yanked in on itself, forming and twisting over my right forearm 
like a metallic bracer. The motion was quick and smooth. Once the scoop 
was retracted, I formed a fist to make sure my gauntlet would still work. It 
did. In fact, the gauntlet fit snuggly over the end of the bracer as if it’d been 
made for it. Now the missing right arm of my jacket didn’t look so 
ridiculous. 

“Here’s your oranges!” Fitz said, piling five of them on the table. 

I picked them up and pulled them all into my inventory. I eyed the 
entrance door to the saferoom, which I knew was the most unbreakable 
thing in here. I extended the scoop. 

I pulled an orange into my hand. I was worried it’d be a little too fat for 
the xistera, but it automatically widened itself. Hey, that’s pretty cool. 

I spun, arcing my arm over my head. The orange rocketed out of the 
scoop and smashed right into the center of the door. The fruit completely 
disintegrated. 

“Hey!” Fitz said. 

“Wow,” Donut said. “That’s delightful! Do it again! Fitz, get him some 
apples and plums!” 


Fitz stopped complaining and ran to comply. I attempted to hit the exact 
same spot. My aim was just a hair off, but I could already tell that as my 
skill in this grew, I’?d become more and more accurate. I really needed to get 
outside and try it for distance. I could now sling projectiles fast. I knew 
with a rock or a metal ball, it would do some serious damage. 

I also realized I was going to have to start tossing a few points into 
dexterity here and there. I’d been planning on a strength and constitution 
build, but if my accuracy became an issue, a dexterity boost would help. 

I tried tossing some of the small ammo I had for my clurichaun 
slingshot. The little rocks weren’t uniform enough in size to properly lob. 
While the scoop tried to make itself thinner, it didn’t get nearly thin enough. 
Their aim was unpredictable because I couldn’t control their passage 
through the scoop as I swung. 

Carl: You win, Zev. No more slingshot. 

Zev: Yay! People are pretty excited about this. I’m glad you got it. 
It was a close vote with something utterly inappropriate. 

Carl: What was it? 

Zev: You know I can’t tell you that. 

“I’m going to need regular ammo and more of those hob-lobbers,” I said 
after I finished. The human couple who’d been sitting in the corner got up 
and ran out the moment I stopped fruit-ninjaing the door. 

“That’s just the tip of the iceberg,” Mordecai said. “You’ll be able to 
make yourself smoke bombs, and I can fashion tossables like poison bags 
and pretty much anything else you can think of. I know a recipe for a 
rubber-like substance that breaks apart when it hits something. We’ll need a 
table for it, though.” 

I nodded. I pulled one of the hob-lobber bombs out of my inventory. I 
examined its properties. 

Hobgoblin Hob-Lobber — Fused. 

Type: Fragmenting Tossable. 

Effect: It blows shit up. 

Status: 150. Fortified. 

A mainstay of the Hobgoblin Hob-Lobbing Lobbers, the Hob- 
Lobber is a stable, mostly-predictable, more practical and tactical 
solution to dynamite. All right? But if you toss it, make sure its wick is 
lit. While not guaranteed to do a premature blast, it’s better than 
nothing, innit? 


“Your rhyming scheme is all off,” I muttered. 

The round bomb was the perfect size for my xistera. This kind of hob- 
lobber had a fuse that needed to be lit. A minor inconvenience. I could go 
back to crazy Pustule the hobgoblin and buy the impact-triggered ones. 
Though, thinking on it, there was a lot I could do with this kind. A lot. 
Especially once Mordecai got his hands on that alchemy table. 

I tossed the heavy bomb into the air and caught it. Everyone in the 
room, even Mongo, looked at me with a horrified expression. The item’s 
stability was still at 150. I could punt the item, and it wouldn’t go off. 
Besides, this was a safe room. Still, they were all looking at me like I’d lost 
my mind. I had a quick memory of a goblin bomb bard who’d been doing 
something similar as we’d passed by. I remembered thinking he was crazy 
at the time. I put the bomb away, smiling sheepishly. 

“I worry about you sometimes,” said Donut. 


“Oh, I know what this is,” Mordecai said the moment I handed him the 
shirt. “You said this was on a city elf, right?” 

“That’s right,” I said. “I didn’t get a chance to read his description 
before Donut and I killed him. So what’s the deal?” 

“You shouldn’t see any real uniformed military on this floor other than 
the guards, or maybe some of the mobs. You will definitely see an 
organized military presence on the ninth and maybe on the sixth. And you 
never know what’s going to happen on the others. But the only jackholes 
who organize themselves like this are the city elves. They’re a gang, and 
they called themselves the 201st Security Group.” 

“Ohh,” I said. “I thought that was a unit patch.” 

“They’re morons is what they are,” Mordecai said. “You’ll find them 
mostly in the larger cities, but also in the medium-sized ones that are 
governed by the skyfowl. I should have known they’d be here.” 

“Are they mercenaries?” I asked, taking the shirt back. 

“They’re nutjobs,” Mordecai said. “There are a lot of types of elves. 
High elves, like your elite friend’s family. Those guys are the forest- 
dwelling magical beings you’re probably most familiar with. There are dark 


elves, wind elves, goblin elves, and a dozen more. And then there are the 
city elves.” 

“He looked like a normal elf to me,” Donut said. “But he was a little 
crazy. He knew our names.” 

“Yeah, I don’t know why he knew you,” said Mordecai. “But anyway, 
on the surface, you had a small segment of society who believed really 
crazy things. Like aliens walked among the people and that lizard folk had 
taken over the highest levels of government. You know what I’m talking 
about, right?” 

“I do,” I said. “But they don’t seem so crazy now, do they? You guys 
were walking around among us.” 

Mordecai scoffed. “Yeah, but not the reptilians. Those guys run a 
shadow government? Please. The last reptilian I knew couldn’t even 
properly run a fantasy football league. Anyway, I’m talking about crazy, 
conspiracy nuts. People who believe the government is trying to use mind 
control on them, secret societies, gay frogs who shoot tracking microchips 
into you using cellular towers, and so on and so forth. Not your run-of-the- 
mill conspiracy theorists, but those who go the extra mile. Tin-foil-hat- 
wearing, silver-drinking nutjobs. The kind of people who cover their 
vehicles with crazy, schizophrenic text about radio signals coming from 
toilets.” 

“I know exactly what you mean,” I said. 

“That’s a city elf. They are designated as a separate race because their 
stupidity is so outstanding, the high elves consider it a genetic defect and 
kick them out. All elves originate with the high elves, who are big on 
banishing and wholesale genocide. It’s what happens when you live forever 
but still keep having babies. So the city elves gather in the cities. The young 
and especially stupid ones always find their way to the 201st. It’s a big, 
poorly organized militia that considers itself a proper military outfit, and it 
has only one goal. To protect the skyfowl from the earthbound.” 

I laughed. “What? They’re earthbound. Aren’t they?” 

“Yeah, so, they believe the skyfowl are angels. They believe all 
flightless creatures are so jealous of us... of the skyfowl I mean, that all 
humans and everybody else without wings want to destroy them. They 
believe when Scolopendra unleashed that nine-tier attack, one of the tiers 
was a spell that made the earthbound want to kill the skyfowl. That’s 


absolutely not true. People want to kill skyfowl because skyfowl are 
assholes. They don’t need a spell to make people hate them.” 

“But, why?” I asked. “Why do the elves care?” 

Mordecai sighed. “It’s kind of a long, complicated story, and we’re 
brushing on a subject I was going to bring up at a later time. We’ve touched 
on it before. Gods and goddesses. In-game deities. We’ll get to what they 
really are later. You don’t need to worry about that on this floor. Anyway, 
all you need to know is that elves worship the Oak Mother, the mother of all 
gods. Her name is Apito. And in one story about Apito, it is said that in 
order to maintain the path to heaven, her angels must remain free and alive. 
And in a completely separate story, Apito is said to have called the skyfowl 
‘bless-ed.’ And in a third, apocryphal story, Apito said only the angels are 
‘blessed.’ In that same story she says any violence against angels is to be 
stopped, and if it continues, she will destroy all the worlds. Ergo, a batshit 
crazy, doomsday cult sect of banished elves now dedicate themselves to 
protecting the skyfowl in anticipation of the day when the tree goddess 
destroys the universe.” 

“All-righty then. And what do the skyfowl think about these guys?” I 
asked. 

He paused. “Skyfowl in general are a diverse people, like humans, but 
the ones on this level are a little different. They’re mostly non-religious. 
They are, as a rule, negatively inclined toward any flightless creature. They 
think of you as a servant class, that you’re beneath them. In the mythology 
of the volcano levels, the skyfowl were the ruling class of the Over City, 
and the High Elves were the ruling class of the forested regions of the 
Hunting Grounds. So when these elves show up in their cities, oftentimes 
falling to the ground and slobbering all over themselves as they offer 
obeisance, they’re treated as an amusement, a joke. Nobody takes them 
seriously. They have their stupid uniforms and their play-acting, but I’ve 
never seen anything come of it in all my time here. This angel thing is their 
main motivation, but they also have all sorts of weird theories and beliefs. 
Everybody makes fun of them. I’ve never known them to actually inflict 
violence.” 

“Well, we’re going to find out what’s going on,” Donut declared. She 
stood stiffly. She’d put the picture of Bea into her inventory. “I’ve decided 
that we’re going to follow through with this quest, and there’s nothing you 
can do to stop us, Mordecai.” 


“Is that so?” Mordecai asked. 

“GumGum died because of us. And Carl, Mongo, and I have decided to 
make it right.” 

Mordecai just looked at her, then he shrugged after a moment. “If that’s 
what you’re gonna do. I ain’t your dad. I’m your manager. You know how I 
feel about quests on this floor. But as long as you spend as much time 
grinding and killing as possible, then so be it.” 

Donut looked surprised, then triumphant. I could tell by the nonplussed 
look on Mordecai’s face that he’d already decided we were stuck with this 
quest whether we wanted it or not. We’d already been sucked in, much the 
way we’d been sucked in when Signet had kidnapped us. 

“GumGum is dead? Did I hear that right?” Fitz asked, looking at us 
with wide eyes. “GumGum the orc?” 

“I’m afraid so,” I said. “She was killed by a group of krasue.” 

“Oh, oh no,” the barkeep said. “I... I gotta sit down. GumGum dead. I 
can’t believe it. She was m’best customer, she was. krasue. I knew they’d 
get her one of these days.” The man wandered back into his kitchens. 

“I’m going to get him blackout drunk tonight,” Mordecai said. “Then I 
can peek at his stores and the newsletter.” 

“So we’re doing this, then?” Donut asked. “We’re doing the quest? And 
this time I will be awake the whole time? Excellent. Let’s solve this 
mystery. What do we gotta do next?” 

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s work through what we already know. We have 
dead prostitutes from outside the city falling from the sky. These women 
have corpses that suggest they’ve been twisted to death. Furthermore, they 
have wounds on their shoulders that indicate they’ve been held aloft by 
something with talons. Possibly a skyfowl. And just a few hours after we 
said we’d do something about it, the woman who gave us the quest ends up 
dead. We’re attacked by that crazy elf dude from that gang along with three 
scary ghost ladies with their guts hanging out. What else?” 

“You have those two pieces of paper,” Donut said. 

“Oh yeah,” I said, pulling them both from my inventory. The first was 
Mysterious Letter. It was a folded piece of paper stained red with blood. I 
opened it. 

It was a relatively short letter, written in a language I didn’t understand. 
The text was all squiggles and triangles. I examined the letter’s properties. 

Mysterious Letter. 


GumGum the orc had this blood-soaked letter in her possession. It’s 
in an odd language. Is it a clue? Is it a grocery list? You can’t fucking 
read it, so who knows? 

I slid it over to Mordecai as I examined the next slip. 

Gate Pass. 

When one walks about the streets of any town within the Over City, 
the mindless Swordsman guards tend to get a bit squirrely if you’re 
carrying a corpse with you. When it comes to their black and white 
view of justice, the rule of law is absolute. 

Unless you have a gate pass. 

This letter gets the city guard off your back as long you’re not being 
too overt with your current criminal enterprise. 

Pass only works within the township in which it was issued. 

The paper itself said, “Gate Pass. The holder of this pass is doing this on 
my orders. Magistrate Featherfall.” 

“That is not what I expected,” I said, putting it back into my inventory. 
It was basically a Get-Out-of-Jail card. 

“I recognize this text,’ Mordecai said, still looking at the mysterious 
letter. He sounded nervous. “I can’t read it, but I know these squiggles. It’s 
necroscript. It’s something an undead magic user would write out. This is 
probably a type of scroll. But you can only read it if you have proper skill in 
the language.” 

“So it has something to do with a necromancer?” I asked. 

“Maybe, maybe not. But when I say ‘undead magic user,’ I mean that 
literally.” 

“Those krasue head things were undead,” I said. “The system said they 
were ghosts.” 

“Krasue are usually henchmen, errr, henchwomen, for something else. 
I’m thinking you two might have a lich problem.” 

“What is a lich?” Donut asked. 

I answered. I knew this from playing DnD. “It’s usually an undead 
magic user, obsessed with eternal life.” 

“Sort of,” Mordecai said. “They’re pretty nasty monsters. They tend to 
be smart, too.” 

“Hmm,” I said, thinking. “What does a lich have to do with those 201st 
Security Group assholes?” 

“Hey, Fitz, darling. Can you come back here please?” Donut called. 


The pub owner appeared from the back, rubbing his eyes. He’d 
obviously been crying. “Yes, your majesty?” 

“You said you were afraid that GumGum would get hurt by one of the 
krasue. What did you mean by that? How did you know about those 
things?” 

I looked at Donut, impressed. I chose not to say anything. 

“She told me,” he said. “She was looking out for them fallen women. 
But she said sometimes she’d hear one, and she’d go into the alleyway even 
though it was still night. I’d tell her not to go in there. It ain’t safe. But 
she’d go, and she said sometimes she’d see the krasue in the shadows. She 
was afraid of them. She had nightmares. But she cared about them women. 
She had nightmares about one of them falling from the sky and not being 
dead, and just sitting there and dying, and nobody being there to hold her 
hand and tell her it was going to be okay. GumGum’s mom had been one of 
them ladies, you see. A lady of the night, I mean. And she’d died after 
getting stabbed. GumGum had found her the next morning. Just sitting on 
the stoop to their house. She’d crawled home and died right there. She’d left 
a red streak a half kilometer long, and nobody had helped. GumGum had to 
grow up mighty fast after that. That’s why she had a soft spot for those 
ladies. The nicest orc you’d ever meet. She smelled something awful, but I 
really liked her.” 

“So krasue are a normal monster for this town?” I asked. 

“There’s no such thing as a normal monster for this town,” he said. “But 
it’s unusual for the undead to rattle about, the magistrate being a black 
cleric, and all. He can control the undead, so I reckon if he knew about 
them, he’d banish them floating lady heads right quick. GumGum said 
she’d complained, and all he did was give her permission to move the dead 
bodies.” 

I exchanged a look with Donut. “Magistrate, huh?” I said. “Do you 
know where this guy’s office is?” 


Donut insisted on placing the picture of Bea on the small table next to her 
cat tree as she slept. Mongo didn’t appear nearly as thrilled about the 


framed photograph as Donut. He actually hissed at it a couple times before 
Donut admonished him. 

“Good boy,” I said later, scratching the top of his head. He chomped at 
the air, electricity sparking from his enchanted fang caps. 

I decided not to read. I had those Louis L'amour books, but we had to 
get up early. Our interview was earlier than usual, and I wanted to check out 
this magistrate guy before it was time to go. Still, I pulled out the 
mysterious letter. I stared at the symbols, trying to memorize them. 

Even though I’d set up the cat tree on her insistence, Donut jumped 
straight onto my neck and settled in. 

“Goodnight, Carl,” she said. 

“Goodnight, Donut,” I said, patting her head. 

“Promise me you won’t let me die alone like GumGum’s mom,” she 
said. “Or GumGum. I guess she died alone, too. She was probably really 
scared.” 

“Don’t worry, Donut,” I said. “We’ll find out who’s responsible, and 
we’ ll make them pay.” 

Thwump. Something hit the roof of the inn, directly over our heads. It 
slid off the rooftop and crashed loudly into the street. 

In the morning we’d discover the body of a naked, twisted human 
prostitute, sprawled out in the alley next to the inn. 

Scrawled onto her back in torn, bloodless flesh were the words, “No, 
you won’t.” 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[ 18 ] 


Time to level Collapse: 3 days, 16 hours. 


Views: 1.9 Quadrillion 
Followers: 72 Trillion 
Favorites: 13.1 Trillion 


“WE’D LIKE TO SEE MAGISTRATE FEATHERFALL, PLEASE,” DONUT SAID, 
using her sweetest voice. 

Getting to this office had been a chore. The town’s administrative 
buildings had no first or second floor, and we’d had to utilize Donut’s 
Puddle Jumper spell to teleport from the rooftop of a knife shop to the 
landing entrance of the town hall. She’d recently hit level five with the 
spell, which had solved the line-of-sight issue. It basically added support for 
jumping up to a higher elevation when you couldn’t see the ground above 
you. It was a minor addition to the spell, but one that made it much more 
useful. The casting delay was also much shorter, now only two seconds 
instead of ten. Still, hitting level five hadn’t decreased the five-hour 
cooldown, which was the worst issue with the spell. 

But we did it. We zapped into the building’s third-floor entrance only to 
come face-to-face with two of the village swordsman guards. They stood 
stoically, ignoring us as we proceeded deeper into the building. 

“How did they get up here?” Donut asked. 


“T have no idea,” I said. “Weird.” 

Donut had protested, but I talked her into putting Mongo into his carrier 
for this excursion. We were headed into the legislative chamber of this 
town, and the last thing we needed was the murder chicken to go 
a’murdering when all we wanted to do was talk. “We’ll keep him in 
reserve,” Pd said. “Our secret weapon in case we have to fight our way 
out.” 

That seemed to appease both of them. 

Mordecai had said that every one of these towns had a different type of 
leadership structure. Before the cataclysm, the skyfowl were in charge of 
the whole Over City. Now, their settlements were scattered, but the 
remaining eagle-controlled villages such as this one still maintained a 
similar structure as before, but without the previous oversight. 

As a result, this Magistrate Featherfall guy was the big boss man of this 
village. In the old days, he would have answered to a regional governor, 
who in turn would answer to the royal chancellor, who in turn would 
answer to some dude in some sprawling capital city that was on the ninth 
floor. 

This third floor was actually a high-end shopping mall of sorts, catering 
only to skyfowl. The administrative building and home to the magistrate 
was directly above this floor, but anyone visiting had to first walk through 
this section. The shops reminded me of the type of stores one would find at 
the airport, filled with expensive crap, like silken robes and fancy hats and 
scrolls. And even though the sparse customers were all the eagle folk, the 
clerks and assistants were all non-eagles, most of them harried-looking 
young women human and elves, rushing about, being snapped at and 
verbally abused by the skyfowl shoppers. 

We walked down a long, wide hallway, flanked by the shops. A red 
carpet stretched from the landing to a stairwell at the end of the hall. I was 
relieved to see it was stairs and not another vertical flyway. As I watched, a 
human carrying a blue folder filled with papers rushed up the stairs. 

“They have to have stairs so the help can get up there,” I said. 

“That still doesn’t explain how they get up here in the first place,” 
Donut said. 

Paintings of eagles fighting elves and other oddities adorned the walls. 
This particular building was one of the largest in town, second only to the 
Desperado Club. From the outside, it was camouflaged well. The exterior 


walls of each section were shingled in a different manner, making it look 
like a group of medieval buildings pressed against one another. The higher- 
end, more opulent interior made the whole façade seem like something one 
would find at Disneyland. 

We passed multiple guards, a couple of eagle shoppers who startled at 
Our appearance, and a handful of other bird-like creatures called 
Chickadees, whom I’d originally mistaken for juvenile skyfowl. These guys 
only came up to my waist and were like dwarven versions of the larger 
birds. 

We approached the stairs without being stopped or questioned. As we 
ascended, the human who’d rushed up earlier rushed back down, almost 
running directly into us. 

“Pardon me,” she said. I looked at the name over her head. Burgundy. 
The woman had an odd look about her. She was young, dark-haired, and 
pretty. She had one pale blue eye and a brown one, like a Siberian husky. 

“No worries,” I said. 

She paused. “Are you lost? We don’t see too many of your kind up 
here.” 

“We’re on our way to see the magistrate,” I said. 

She snorted. “Good luck.” Then she continued back down the stairs. 

We continued up and walked straight into a reception area. 

A large desk sat in one corner, pressed against the far wall, which 
contained another door. On the desk were piles of papers, what appeared to 
be an oversized bento box filled with sushi, more papers—including the 
blue folder Burgundy had just dropped off, and a colorful line of small, 
stuffed animals, from bears to goblins to eagles to sharks. Behind the desk 
was a row of shelves containing more of the colorful collection. These 
things were the dungeon version of Beanie Babies, I realized. There had to 
be 300 of them lined up on the shelves. Most, if not all, of them still had 
tags. A few from the top shelf were protected by individual glass cases. 

Behind the desk, instead of a chair, there was a perch. And upon that 
perch rested an elderly, female skyfowl. Her feathers were tinged gray, and 
her large beak was cracked and crazed like brittle, old pottery. She smelled 
like Icy Hot. She glared at the intrusion with a who-the-hell-are-you-and- 
what-the-hell-are-you-doing-here look upon her sour face. I examined the 
NPC’s properties. 

Miss Quill — Skyfowl. Level 30. 


Assistant to the Magistrate. 

Cerberus. Heimdall. Aniketos and Alexiares. Qin Shubao. Lev 
Yashin. Some of the greatest gate guardians of both history and 
mythology. But none of them, not a one, was as dedicated to their work 
as Miss Quill. 

If she doesn’t want you to see the magistrate, you ain’t seeing the 
magistrate. 

“Do you have an appointment?” she asked Donut. 

“We don’t,” Donut said. “But we have a matter of great importance to 
discuss regarding the safety of this town.” 

“And what is that matter?” she asked. 

Donut leaned in. “Murder. Murder most foul.” 

Miss Quill did not appear impressed. “Was it a skyfowl>” 

“The suspect?” Donut asked. “We don’t know yet, but...” 

“No, not the suspect. Put that down!” I quickly placed the lemur Beanie 
Baby back on the desk. The little stuffed creature wore a bandolier of 
knives, just like the real version. “Were any skyfowl murdered?” 

“No,” Donut said. “Not that we know of.” 

“Then he’s not going to care,” Miss Quill said. “And if he’s not going to 
care, I’m not going to disturb him. Because he will care about being 
disturbed.” 

Donut: MY CHARM ISN’T WORKING ON HER. 

Mordecai: There’s probably an anti-charm spell working in the 
area. 

Carl: Plan B it is. 

“Is that how it is in this town, then?” I asked. “As long as the victims 
aren’t skyfowl, they can just go screw themselves?” 

She looked at me as if I were something she’d just regurgitated. “Do 
you want the short answer or the long answer to that?” 

“The long answer,” I said. 

“Yes,” she said. “That’s how it is in this town. It was like this when my 
late husband was the Magistrate, and it’s like that now with Magistrate 
Featherfall.” She looked down at her bento box and sighed. “But please, 
feel free to leave a note describing the situation, and if it warrants further 
investigation, we’ll get back to you.” 

“And what about the evidence we collected? Should we leave that here, 
too?” I asked. 


“Tf you must.” 

I pulled the dead hooker from my inventory and splatted her on the 
eagle’s desk. The corpse’s legs, still stiff with rigor, upset the line of Beanie 
Babies, tumbling them off the edge of the desk one by one, like a line of 
synchronized swimmers diving into the pool. 

Pd been afraid the system wouldn’t let me pick up and store the corpse, 
as it wasn’t something we’d tried before. I’d been surprised to find it did let 
us. It had even helpfully labeled the body as Quest Clues in my inventory. 

The eagle made a strangled noise, leaping from her perch. Her back hit 
the wall, and it upset the bottom two shelves, cascading more of the 
beanbag creatures to the floor. For a moment the only sound was the plop, 
plop, plop of the figures as they slid and tumbled. 

“Guards,” Miss Quill croaked. “Guards!” 

The two swordsmen at the base of the stairs clunked their way up 
toward us. They both unsheathed their swords as they emerged, rising up 
like metallic beasts. I remembered the announcement from a few days 
earlier, that their strength had been “slightly” increased. I really hoped this 
worked. 

“Capture these two! Do so immediately,” Miss Quill demanded. 

The mute suits of armor looked back and forth about the room. Neither 
of them moved. 

“Oh for the sake of the gods,” Miss Quill said angrily. “Look at my 
desk, you fools.” 

The moment we found the dead prostitute this morning, with that 
gruesome note scrawled onto her flesh, I’d called one of the swordsmen 
over. I pointed to the corpse, I pulled the Gate Pass—the get-out-of-jail-free 
pass from the town magistrate—and showed it to the guard. Then I took the 
corpse into my inventory. I hadn’t known for certain that actually did 
anything. But I knew if we were going to be waving a dead hooker around, 
odds were good the town guards would get involved. Mordecai said they 
had a collective mind. And if they’d already seen me with the body and 
had, in their odd way, endorsed my ability to have a dead hooker in my 
possession, then the act of me simply tossing the corpse onto the desk 
wouldn’t be considered a crime. 

Hopefully. 

Without a word, the guards turned and walked back down the stairs. 


“You useless, worthless, piles of junk!” Miss Quill called after them. 
She returned her gaze to us. 

“How do they get up here anyway?” I asked. “Also, how do all those 
workers in the shops get up here? Is there a secret elevator? We looked for 
like an hour for an easy way up and couldn’t find one.” 

“Take that with you right now,” Miss Quill said. “What is wrong with 
you?” She squatted and began gathering up the fallen toys in her wings. But 
she had nowhere to put them. Not until the shelf was fixed and the dead 
woman was removed from the desk. 

Donut leaped from my shoulder and sniffed at the ground. “This one is 
getting really dirty,” Donut said, looking at a rat-faced beanie that looked 
suspiciously like Mordecai’s first form. “And I think the label tore on this 
one. Carl, stop stepping on them!” 

“Stop! Stop it right now! Please, just take it away.” The elderly eagle 
appeared to be on the verge of tears. 

“Take her away,” Donut corrected. 

“Let us talk to him, and we’l bring the evidence to him directly,” I said. 

“He’s not here, okay?” Miss Quill said, frantically piling the toys in the 
comer. She picked one up with her talon and frantically rubbed non-existent 
dirt off it with her wing. “Look what you’ve done, look what you’ve done.” 

I glanced at the closed door near her desk. The door was large, metal, 
and foreboding. 

“He’s really not here?” I asked. 

“No,” she said. “He only comes out at night nowadays. Oh my gods, 
what is that liquid?” 

“I don’t know,” I said. “It’s not blood. They’ve all had their blood 
sucked out of them. But their bodies still leak. And smell. It’s really gross.” 

Her wings were full of beanies. “Please, please,” she said. “Just take it 
away. Take her away. I’ Il tell him you were here. I promise.” 

I reached over and picked the dead woman back up, returning her in my 
inventory. A milky-white stain of fluid covered Miss Quill’s desk. 

“I’m going to be sick,” the receptionist said. 

“You better get some paper towels or something,” I said. “My grandma 
collected these things, and they sucked in moisture like you wouldn’t 
believe.” 

“Don’t you touch anything,” she said. She gently placed the beanies 
held in her wings into the corner pile. She rushed toward the stairs, yelling 


that she needed a shirt or a towel. 

We only had a minute, maybe less. I rushed to the door to Featherfall’s 
chambers. It was locked. The moment I touched the door, a notification 
popped up. 

This door is locked. Magically locked. It’s almost like they don’t 
want you going in there. 

“Shit,” I muttered, looking around. 

My eyes focused on the top, undisturbed line of beanies sitting above 
her desk. 


“Just tell him we came by,” I said to Miss Quill as we went back down the 
stairs. “And you’re welcome for fixing your shelf.” She ignored us as she 
frantically cleaned off her table. 

“That was disappointing,” Donut said. “Do you think he was actually in 
there?” 

“T don’t know. Mordecai seems to think he lives in there, but who 
knows?” 

“We don’t even know for sure he has anything to do with it,” Donut 
said. 

“Nope,” I said. “That’s why I wanted to talk to him when he was in his 
office. I figured if he’s some evil, crazy boss, he wouldn’t go all Freddy 
Krueger on us in public. And if he’s not the bad guy, surely he’d be able to 
point us in the correct direction. But I don’t think it’s that complicated. This 
quest is only a silver one. Plus look at the clues. He’s a black cleric? He 
only comes out at night? It has to be him.” 

“So we’re coming back tonight, then?” Donut asked. “Or did you want 
to find the 201st Security Group headquarters first?” She paused in front of 
a store selling robes made for skyfowl. “Would you look at how pretty that 
is.” 

“Tt’s magical silk,” the young, elven woman said. “It allows skyfowl to 
stay aloft almost indefinitely.” 

“It’s beautiful. I’d love to learn how to fly. Can you imagine that, Carl? 
Me flying?” 


“We’ll be back,” I said, turning to look over my shoulder. I pulled the 
rope from my inventory. It’d only cost five gold for a thirty-foot length. 
We'd have to use it to get back to the street. “We’ll talk to him one way or 
another.” 


We still had two hours before our interview. Zev said if we were fighting or 
in the midst of something, they wouldn’t allow us to get transported, which 
was why she preferred us to be in a safe room when it was time. Still, we 
had two hours, and I decided we should use the time wisely. 

So we left the city and traveled west, searching for mobs to kill. A few 
other crawlers were about, but we avoided them. I kept a wary eye for those 
with player-killer skulls over their head. I hadn’t forgotten about Frank Q 
and Maggie My. I wondered what race they’d chosen, or if they were even 
still alive. 

I didn’t yet have any proper non-explosive ammo for my xistera, but I 
had two dozen hob-lobbers. The fuses on the bombs were between six and 
seven seconds, which was perfect when I was tossing them like they were 
grenades. But when I was hurling them at 250 mph at a mob, six seconds 
was a little too long. So instead, I pre-lit ten of them, which took two and a 
half seconds off the fuse. Both Mordecai and Donut were mortified by the 
idea of me walking around with lit bombs sitting in my inventory, but it was 
pretty much the only way I could properly do this with the equipment I had. 

We walked past a row of especially decrepit buildings. This particular 
neighborhood appeared it might’ve been slums before the cataclysm. Donut 
sat upon my shoulder, and Mongo walked beside us, randomly growling. 
Pd been alarmed at first, but there didn’t seem to be anything out there. We 
hadn’t seen anything for fifteen minutes. Then I saw the X on the map, and 
I realized it was the corpse of a neighborhood boss. This area had already 
been cleared by someone else, probably a few days earlier. 

“Damnit,” I grumbled. “What a waste of time.” I sighed. “Let’s go get 
the neighborhood map.” 

The attack came just as I was about to descend into an abandoned, used- 
to-be indoor swimming pool. This building had been the Over City’s 
version of a YMCA, though half of the structure was gone. The empty 


swimming pool sat mostly outside, exposed to the air. The rotting corpse of 
a two-headed sea creature sat within. The thing had the body of a whale, but 
with two long, Lochness-monster-like heads. Apparently the street urchins 
steered clear of boss corpses. The boss was a level-17 monster called The 
Divider, and it had been killed by a crawler named Daniel Bautista 2. The 
boss had multiple, manhole-cover-sized holes in it. The monster’s body was 
massively bloated, despite puncture wounds. It looked like a balloon from 
the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day parade. 

Just as I stepped into the shallow end of the empty pool, the world 
around us went dark. A dozen red dots appeared on the map. The dots were 
pretty far away, two sets on either side of the street. They started to close in. 

We'd left the inn at sunrise, and we hadn’t yet hit whatever this world’s 
version of noon was called. The virtual sun had blazed directly above us 
just moments before. We’d gone from day to night so quickly, I thought I’d 
been struck blind. I stepped back from the pool and put my back against the 
wall. The dots remained out there on the street. They crept slowly and 
cautiously, almost as if they thought they were sneaking up on us. 

Donut immediately cast Torch, shooting the light high above the street. 
The bright light was like a star in the sky. The torch blazed, but it didn’t fill 
the darkness like it should, as if the murk was resisting it. 

A moment later, a green bolt shot from one of the red dots, and it 
crashed right into the torch, snuffing it out. 

“Well that was rude,” Donut said. 

“Shit, they have an anti-magic attack,” I said. We needed to come up 
with a plan, and fast. I pulled two regular torches from my inventory, lit 
them, and tossed them ahead of me. They skittered out onto the street. The 
darkness did not budge. It pushed in on the twin torches, surrounding them 
like the very air was made of ink. 

Down the street, something moaned. It sent chills through me. Mongo 
let out a half growl, half whimper. 

Still, the darkness wasn’t absolute. I could make out shapes in the 
gloom. I couldn’t see the mobs, which were still a good hundred feet away, 
but I could sense the outlines of buildings. A wall of rubble blocked our exit 
through the gym and to the next street, and there was no passage across the 
other way. We were boxed in. 

Even so, the monsters moved slowly. That made me nervous. Slow 
mobs were usually the type you didn’t want anywhere near you. 


“Two of them are city elves,” Donut quickly said. “The furthest dot on 
each side. I don’t know what the rest are, but they’re big. Should we do 
Slime Time?” 

Of all the predetermined plays we’d come up with so far, Slime Time 
was Donut’s favorite. And for good reason. It was fucking awesome. But 
now wasn’t the time. Plus, I wasn’t so sure it’d work. Not here. 

“Negative,” I said. “Wait one second. Let’s see if this does anything.” 

I stepped away from the wall and pulled a lit hob-lobber into my hand 
as I extended my xistera. I couldn’t see the mobs, but I could sense them 
there. Moaning and shuffling toward us. Were they zombies? Jesus. That 
was a terrifying thought. I spun and tossed the bomb as hard as I could 
directly at the far dot of the city elf, the one who had cast the anti-magic 
spell. 

The sizzling bomb flew with satisfying speed, rocketing out of my 
xistera like a cannonball. It hit something fleshy, about twenty feet from the 
city elf. Pd aimed so it would fly over the slow-moving monsters, but 
apparently I hadn’t aimed high enough. 

Bam! The presumed sound of raining gore slapped into the street. 

One of the dots turned into an X. But only one. My bomb seemed to 
have sunk into the monster. I now had a clear line to the elf. I spun, hurling 
a second bomb at the fucker. 

This one hit home, perfectly timed. I really wished I could see it. The 
hob-lobber blew just before it reached the elf, but the fragmenting 
explosion ripped through him. There wasn’t even an X left after that. 

The other monsters groaned, now only forty feet away. 

The darkness didn’t lift. 

I could now hear the sound of shuffling, like feet on the floorboards. 
Holy shit, these were zombies. They had to be. Giant zombies. 

No more screwing around. I retracted my xistera and pulled two sticks 
of goblin dynamite from my pack. “Run into the pool,” I called as I lit them 
both and tossed one in each direction. 

The moment I tossed the second stick, the line of red dots surged 
forward, rushing at me. I watched, in horrified slow motion, as the flying 
stick of dynamite rebounded off a massive shape, at least twelve feet tall. 
The stick didn’t blow, but it bounced, hissing and spitting and rolling 
toward me, much too close. 


“Oh fuck, oh fuck!” I hopped backward into the empty pool, not 
bothering to gauge exactly where I was standing. I had no time. I just 
jumped. I prepared to press my Protective Shell spell, but I wanted to be 
closer to Donut and Mongo before I did it. 

Unfortunately, I stopped falling much sooner than I anticipated. I landed 
directly on the spongey, rotting corpse of the Divider. 

And that was the last thing I remembered. 

What happened next was later relayed to me by Donut, who was the 
only one of us to stay conscious for the remainder of the fight. 

Both sticks blew, killing most of the remaining monsters and the 
remaining city elf. Pd fallen far enough to be protected from that blast. 
However, I was not protected from the bloating corpse of the boss monster, 
which in turn blew like a goddamn potato in the microwave, either from me 
falling into it, or from the shockwave of the dual explosions. 

The moment the second elf died, the lights snapped back on. The first 
thing Donut saw was me sailing up in the air like I’d been ejected from a 
catapult, spinning like a pinwheel. I landed upon the roof of the building 
across the street. 

The detonation of the Divider’s corpse did no damage to either Donut or 
Mongo, though it showered both of them with a blizzard of stinking, gooey 
gore. Donut grabbed the neighborhood map, leaped out of the pool, and she 
finished off the last three of the monsters, all of whom had barely survived. 
She hit two with magic missiles, and she set Mongo on the third. The 
dinosaur went about his task with practiced glee. 

Donut then leaped to the roof of the building I’d landed on and used a 
heal scroll to bring my health back up. I remained unconscious for another 
three minutes, despite being healed. 

I awakened, staring up at the sky. I’d gone up a level to 19. My brain 
took several moments to reboot. I’d landed on a pile of rocks, and they dug 
into my back. I groaned, rolling over, and I almost plummeted through a 
hole in the ceiling into the floor below. I had no idea where I was. What had 
happened? 

I heard the thwump of Donut’s Magic Missile, and I abruptly looked up. 

“Good morning, Carl. I haven’t seen any more of the elves, but the meat 
bags keep coming,” she said. She fired another missile. “They’re pretty 
easy to kill if you hit them in the right place. Mongo is having a field day. 
He’s already gone up to level 12.” She leaned over the edge and yelled. 


“Good boy, Mongo! Mommy is going to kill the next one, and you get the 
one behind him.” She fired once again. 

“What is happening? How did I get up here? Whoa, Donut. What the 
hell happened to you?” 

I’d seen Donut covered in gore before, but this was the next goddamned 
level. After we’d fought the Juicer on the first floor, she’d been caked in 
blood and guts. I’d thought we’d never get her clean. That was nothing 
compared to this. She had to have three inches of red, stinking viscera 
attached to her fur. She was covered like a piece of extra-crispy fried 
chicken. 

“Later,” she said. “They keep coming from that direction. They’re really 
slow until they get close, but then they get fast. Watch Mongo kill this one.” 

I was also covered in gore, but mostly on my back. I felt it slide off of 
me as I sat up. It was as thick as mud. 

I peered over the edge and gaped at the sight. I swallowed. I’d never 
seen anything like it. Pd had porridge for breakfast, and I regretted it now. 

In every direction was splattered sticky blood and body parts. The 
swimming pool was filled with red, and much of the viscera was currently 
spilling into it, filling it deeper and deeper. Hunks of flesh, some pretty big, 
lay strewn about like boulders. The white shock of bone stuck up 
everywhere, giving the sense I was looking at the zoomed-in view of a 
wound, and the bones were actually grubs. 

And the smell. Oh god, it hit me all at once. It was the stench of a sewer 
and the contents of a refrigerator at a restaurant that sold 99 cent tilapia, 
cracked open after an extended period with no power. My head swam. 

“Fucking hell,” I said. “What the hell happened down there?” 

“You did it,” Donut said. “You really need to be more careful, Carl.” 

My eyes caught movement, and I finally saw one of the monsters we’d 
been facing in the dark. 

The beast was a thirteen-foot-tall pile of body parts, all sewn together 
haphazardly as it shuffled forward. It was as if Doctor Frankenstein had 
dropped acid before he’d made his creation. I saw legs and arms and torsos, 
all smushed together. But there were heads, too. Lots of heads, all human. 
The thing moved and was shaped like a giant slug. Tentacles made of arms 
and legs twirled above it, waving in the air. The heads all groaned in unison. 

The thing was terrifying to behold, and I was glad I was now up here 
and not on the ground facing it. 


Shambling Berserker — Level 12 

If you weren’t fortunate enough to face one of these neighborhood 
boss monsters on the first level of the dungeon, fret not! Now’s your 
chance to get in on the fun! 

You know how you sometimes buy something from IKEA, and after 
you’re done putting it all together, you have a few parts left over? It 
happens to the best of us. What you see here is a Shambling Berserker, 
the smallest iteration of this creature. Also known as the Mini Grinder 
or the Shrilling, this creature consists of extra parts we found after 
creating the World Dungeon. Waste not, want not. 

This undead abomination is oftentimes found in groups, summoned 
as a slow, but very tenacious assassin. Once you’re targeted by these 
guys, they don’t stop. The good news is, they’re mostly harmless. 
Unless, of course, you face one in the dark. Their power is quadrupled 
in the dark. And once they go berserk, there’s no putting them down. 
They ain’t so slow after that. 

So, yeah, actually, you’re probably fucked. 

I thought of Mrs. Parsons, my downstairs neighbor before all this 
started. She’d been beheaded in the collapse. Her head had fallen at my 
feet, but the rest of her had gone down into the depths with the rest of the 
building. Had they used her headless body for one of these things? 

As I watched, Mongo emerged from a pile of gore where he’d been 
having a snack, and he squealed, running at full speed toward the monster 
and leaping, feet first. The shambling berserker tumbled back and fell apart, 
groaning as it died. 

“They’re really easy to kill,” Donut said. “They just fall apart.” 

“That’s because it’s not dark anymore,” I said. I felt as if Pd been hit by 
a damn truck. I still didn’t know exactly what had happened. “I’m pretty 
sure our Featherfall friend sent these dudes after us.” 

“Probably. Also, I think we should have a new rule,” Donut said. 

“What’s that?” 

“Its quite evident we shouldn’t be throwing explosives when we’re 
blinded.” 

I laughed. “That sounds like a good rule.” 

Below, Mongo screeched with victory as he eviscerated the pile of 
slow-moving body parts. 


“I got the neighborhood map,” Donut continued. “I can see there’s about 
ten more coming. Let me and Mongo kill them, and we’ll head back. This 
has been a great day for experience. Pll hit 17 before we’re done, but we 
need to hurry. There’s a saferoom around the corner. I need to take a shower 
before we go on our interview.” 

I thought of us zapping into a production trailer looking like we did 
now, and I suddenly felt myself grin. I couldn’t help it. I just started 
laughing. It even sounded a little crazy to my own ears. 

“Okay,” I said. I pulled a hob-lobber out, tossing it in the air and 
catching it. “But let me kill a couple, too. I want to see how far I can really 
chuck these things.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


EES 


THIS WAS A DIFFERENT PRODUCTION TRAILER THAN THE ONE WE’D USED FOR 
the Maestro’s show, but it was still a rental, according to the frisbee-shaped 
robot running the thing. The boat was even larger and more well-appointed 
than Odette’s private production trailer, and I had the sense this one was 
normally used for dignitaries and non-crawlers. Or maybe it was even a 
living quarters, as it had a large, bowl-shaped bed and a very nifty shower 
facilities. 

There was a tray set out with food, but it clearly wasn’t food from earth. 
It was little, purple, squiggly worm things, still alive. They smelled like 
fish. Donut and I decided neither of us were hungry. Mongo sniffed at the 
tray and slurped it all up. 

They’d likely rented this place at the last minute since I’d told Zev we 
didn’t have time to get properly cleaned up. She sounded as if she might cry 
over the chat when I told her. She started lecturing us on how we needed to 
be ready for our “media relations obligations.” 

The saferoom had been a bare-bones version with no food and only a 
single shower facilities. We’d soaked Donut, and I had Mordecai brushing 
her as I got ready. Still, by the time we needed to go, Donut’s fur remained 
heavily matted. The red, mud-like gore clung to her like paint. She needed 
to get back in the shower again, but we didn’t have time. 

So when we transferred to the production trailer, we’d moved to a 
special one that contained a shower that was straight out of the Jetsons 
cartoon. The frisbee robot thing’s name was D-ONAH, which Donut 
immediately translated to “Donna.” Donna told Donut to remove all of her 
gear—except her tiara of course—and to proceed to the shower. Mongo and 


I watched as the cat got on a treadmill thing that appeared to have been 
especially designed for her. It blasted her with water, air, some blue 
chemical, more water, more air, a robot arm brushed her, and then she got 
blasted again. 

When she came out the other side, she looked as if she was ready for 
judging at an international cat show. Her fur glistened. There was no 
indication that an hour earlier she’d been showered with the exploding gore 
of a multi-ton, long-dead sea creature boss. I watched as she re-equipped 
her crupper and the rest of her equipment. Donna ushered her back into the 
cleaning machine, and this time the mechanism focused on cleaning and 
polishing her gear. She stepped out, and the metal skirt gleamed. Mongo 
crept up to her and started sniffing at her suspiciously. 

“Carl, Donna tells me that one may purchase one of these all-purpose 
cleaners for a personal space. She says they’re expensive, but I think 
they’re absolutely well-worth it. We need to save our money. Quick, you go 
in there too. It is luxurious.” 

“Nah, I’m good,” I said. 

“Carl, the back of your cloak looks as if it was used as a sanitary 
napkin. You need to get cleaned.” 

“Crawler Carl, I have been instructed to inform you that you need to 
avail yourself of the cleaning facilities,” Donna the robot said. “You will be 
in the presence of royalty on the panel, and not presenting yourself properly 
is considered an insult.” 

Uh-oh. “Royalty? It’s not that Maestro asshole, is it?” 

“Prince Maestro has been stripped of his titles and disowned by his 
father, so he is no longer considered royalty. But no, it is not anyone of the 
Skull Empire. You will receive a rundown of your fellow panelists at the 
preshow briefing, which will occur in ten minutes. Now please step into the 
cleaner.” 

“Okay, but I’m not getting naked,” I said. “Just clean the stuff people 
can see.” 

The robot paused. “Very well,” she said. 

“And then Mongo,” Donut said. “He smells really bad.” 

“Your pet will be required to be stored during the interview.” 

“Excuse me?” Donut said. I stepped into the machine to avoid listening 
to the ensuing argument. Donna continued talking to me while the treadmill 
resized itself, instructing me to lift my arms and turn around, but I could see 


through the plexiglass-like material that Donut was also arguing with the 
robot. I couldn’t hear what was happening, but I could tell Donut was 
pissed. 

Like with Odette’s trailer, this facility also had a porthole window. I 
stared out at the wide expanse of open sea. Unlike the last two times, it was 
now light outside, and I could finally see the real world. A pair of silver, 
trailer-like objects floated in the ocean a couple hundred meters away. They 
looked like shipping containers, though they bobbed up and down like any 
regular ship. In the blue sky, a trio of shapes zipped through the air, 
astonishingly fast. 

I wondered how the other humans were doing, the ones who’d been 
smart enough not to go into the dungeon. The system had said they’d be left 
alone if they decided not to participate, but even through this little porthole 
looking through to some random place in the ocean, I could see that wasn’t 
true. How many spaceships and other vessels had descended on the planet? 
Were they really leaving the other humans alone? Or were they being 
exploited, hunted, or enslaved? 

“We came to a compromise,” Donut announced once I stepped out. 
“Mongo is to be cleaned, but then he’s going into the carrier.” 

I spent the next five minutes watching Donut attempt to talk the 
dinosaur into walking onto the treadmill. I’d just watched the pet plunge 
headfirst into a 13-foot-tall undead zombie frittata, but the idea of getting 
clean appeared to terrify him. Donut finally succeeded by capturing him 
with the pet carrier and then zapping him back out directly onto the 
contraption. The cleaner turned on, and the giant chicken started shrieking 
like a piglet being fed into a meat grinder. We could hear him even through 
the soundproofing of the device. 

“Don’t be a baby,” Donut called. “Mommy is right here!” 

He came out a moment later poofed up and smelling of lavender. He 
started running in circles around the trailer while Donna clucked after him 
nervously. 

Finally, Donut zapped him away, and the door at the end of the room 
opened. We walked into an empty studio with a large, round table. There 
was a section for a studio audience, but it was currently empty. Spotlights 
blazed over us. There was no desk like with Odette’s show, and there was 
no extra-omate chair like with the Maestro’s stupid program. There was a 


simple, glowing sign against the back wall that read Danger Zone with 
Ripper Wonton. 

One of the chairs had Carl glowing over it, and the one next to it read 
Princess Donut. We both sat down. Like usual, Donut’s chair ascended into 
the air, allowing her to look over the table. 

“This is so exciting,” Donut said. “I always love going on new shows.” 

“Yeah, the last new one really worked out great,” I said. 

A strange creature appeared, entering the room from a door across the 
studio. I guessed the creature was a he, but I wasn’t certain. He was 
humanoid in shape, but absurdly thin. He stood about my height and was 
entirely white and hairless. He had oversized, black eyes, like pools of oil. 
A ridge grew from between his eyes and up, over his head, like a bony 
mohawk. He wore simple, white clothes. His entire body glowed. When he 
walked, he drifted as if his feet didn’t touch the ground. 

Since we were outside the game, he had no name floating over him. He 
came to hover beside the table. 

“Princess Donut and Carl, welcome to Danger Zone,” he said. His voice 
sounded like I would expect. Airey and halting, alien-like. He waved at us 
in greeting, moving languidly. He only had three fingers on each hand. 

“Hello. We are delighted to meet you,” Donut said. “Are you Ripper 
Wonton?” 

He chuckled softly. “No, Princess. My name is Evo. I am the program’s 
director. I wanted to greet you two personally before we bring everyone else 
online. We will be live, not pre-recorded. We have one other crawler with 
us tonight, and she has already been briefed.” He indicated an empty chair. 
“She is sitting there at the moment and can’t see you.” 

“What’s the name of your race?” I asked. 

“Ahh, I am of a people called the Forsoothed. People generally call us 
Soothers,” Evo said. 

“We had a lot of fiction and movies about aliens, and a lot of them 
looked similar to you,” I said. 

“Yes, it is interesting,” Evo said. “Your culture showed the Null more 
than us, but we have seen examples of our people in your historical records 
and media. I do not know how you latched onto our likeness. It is most 
likely one of my brethren visited your world in the past. Some of my people 
are oddsmakers, and they likely visited this planet to get a sample of the 
human stock in order to make predictions for the crawl. Visiting the planet 


except for official Syndicate business was illegal, of course, but that doesn’t 
mean it didn’t happen.” 

“So alien abductions were really a thing?” I said. “Imagine that.” 

“What about the probes?” Donut asked. “I remember them talking about 
the probes on television.” 

“I assume you’re talking about anal probes?” Evo asked. “Yes, we’ve 
heard about this, as well. If that really happened, it was likely done by the 
Null. You called them the Grays. They are a nasty, unpleasant race. 
Perverts, all of them.” 

Evo pointed at the chair immediately to my left. A static holographic 
image appeared. It was of a tentacle-faced woman wearing a crown. “We 
must move on. Sitting in this chair will be Princess D’nadia of the Prism. 
She is a race called the Saccathians. People call them Sacs. They are a 
common race, but D’nadia’s Prism kingdom is rather small. Still, she is a 
powerful force in certain trade circles and is quite outspoken. She is a 
regular on this program. She is a fan of you two and specifically asked to sit 
here.” 

I examined the squid woman. This was just a holographic 
representation, not the real deal. Her skin appeared gray and covered in 
bumps. A tangle of squid-like tentacles hung from her cephalopod face, like 
she was a human-sized Cthulhu. She wore a long, flowing dress, and there 
was no way to tell what was under it. The whole look kind of freaked me 
out. 

The next chair contained a pudgy, fuzzy brown creature that looked like 
the result of a wombat/Ewok union. The thing only stood about four feet 
high, and didn’t wear any clothes except a fucking orange scarf around his 
neck, like Fred from Scooby Doo. He had two huge cheeks and giant eyes. 
He was disgustingly cute. I vaguely remembered that Miss Quill had a 
beanbag version of this race sitting on her shelf. 

“Oh my,” Donut said. “That is positively adorable.” 

“This is your host, Ripper Wonton,” Evo said. “He is of a race called a 
Setonix. People mostly call them Quokkas, though. He will lead the 
conversation. He is a good-hearted gentleman, despite his strong opinions. 
He will treat you fairly, but if he disagrees with your positions on anything, 
he will take you to task.” 

In the next chair was another female. She was a silver and black Cobra- 
headed creature. The holograph towered over the table. Her hooded head 


had to be a meter wide. 

“This is Manasa. She is a famed singer. She’s a Naga, but do not 
worry,” Evo said. He looked at Donut. “She’s not of the Blood Sultanate, so 
you won’t have to kill her when you hit the ninth floor. She’s not really a 
Naga, either. The real Manasa perished long ago, but she contracted with 
the Valtay Corporation to keep her career going once she died.” 

I remembered what Odette had told me about the Valtay system. Their 
people were little parasites that took over bodies. “So, she has a worm in 
her brain, driving her body?” 

“That is correct,” Evo said. “And her career is hotter than ever. Her 
latest single is currently ranked 8th in the entire universe.” 

The next chair held a stuffy-looking, middle-aged human named Tucker. 
A stand-up comedian. I disliked him already, based solely on the stupid grin 
on his holographic, punchable face. 

Evo revealed the last participant, and I immediately recognized the 
crawler sitting there. Donut gasped. 

It was Hekla, the blond-haired Icelandic woman who was now an 
Amazonian Shieldmaiden. She ran the team Brynhild’s Daughters. I’d last 
seen her just a few nights earlier on the recap episode. Her people had been 
scattered upon entering the third floor, but she’d mostly regrouped, and 
they’d taken out an owlbear borough boss. I remembered she had an 
automatic, magical crossbow that tore everything up. The weapon was like 
a ranged chainsaw. I couldn’t tell what her stats were now, but two days ago 
she’d hit level 25, the second crawler to do so, just hours after Lucia Mar. 
Hekla’s muscles bulged as she leaned forward in her chair and I realized 
this wasn’t a static hologram, but actually her. 

“Hi, Hekla!” Donut called across the table. She looked at me. “Carl, 
look. It’s Hekla!” 

“T can see, Donut,” I said. 

“Hello, Donut,” she said. She looked at me and nodded. 

“Is your team holding up okay?” I asked. 

“We are surviving,” she said. The woman held very little emotion in her 
voice. Her eyes were the color of sapphire. “One of the Daughters is near 
you. She recognized the circus from the episode and knows you’re in the 
vicinity. She wants to come back to the team, but I believe we are too far 
away. She needs some help leveling. Will you assist her? I will take it as a 
personal favor.” 


“Of course!” Donut said before I could respond. “We’d love to help 
your friend!” 

Goddamnit Donut. I paused. “Tell her to come to the One-eyed Narwhal 
tonight,” I said. “In the medium skyfowl settlement. But just an FYI, we’re 
in the middle of something dangerous right now, and we won’t be able to 
slow down to help her. We’ll do what we can.” 

“Very well,” Hekla said. A slight smile curled her lip. “Just don’t blow 
her up.” 


“As much as I dislike the Mudskippers,” Tucker, the pompous asshat, was 
saying, “I can’t help but feel that the Valtay have overstepped in their push 
to take over the season. The courts have long upheld the rights of those 
seeking bankruptcy protection, and I don’t see why that should change.” 

“Aren’t you supposed to be a comedian?” Donut asked. “When are you 
going to say something funny?” The audience roared. “See, it’s not that 
hard.” 

To my left, Princess D’nadia trumpeted with her tentacles, a sound that 
apparently meant amused agreement. She kept attempting to grasp my 
hand, though her webbed claws just pushed through my own fingers. 
Manasa, the cobra-headed pop singer, also laughed, her forked tongue 
flipping in and out. 

Tucker sneered. “Well then, what is your opinion on the matter, 
Princess Donut?” 

Donut scoffed. “How the heck should I know? Pm a cat!” More 
laughter. “But I do know this, Butler. One, I know that I don’t know enough 
about this subject to voice a proper opinion on it, unlike you, who is 
obviously talking out of your behind. And two, I know my partner here has 
a very poor opinion of you. Isn’t that right, Carl?” 

“Yup,” I said. “You’re a dipshit.” 

Hekla laughed for the first time since this started. Even Ripper, who was 
attempting to maintain some impartial facade throughout the program, put 
his head down and pounded on the table, trying not to let the emotion boil 
over. 


I had no idea if this Tucker guy’s opinion was valid or not, but one of 
the first things he’d done when the roundtable had started was make a 
snotty comment about the show lowering their standards by letting a pet sit 
on the panel. I’d thought he was going to turn it into a light-hearted joke, 
maybe even turn it around on the host, but the dude was dead serious. The 
crowd had booed, and he got this self-righteous smirk on his face. Donut 
did not like that, and she immediately started tearing into the guy. She was 
in rare form. They’d been going back and forth like this for a half hour now. 
At first I was worried about her taking on a comedian, but she had the guy 
against the ropes almost immediately, and he was too dumb to realize he’d 
already lost 

“You know my name isn’t Butler. You’re just trying to make me angry.” 

Donut looked up at me, her eyes sparkling. “Carl, you told me his name 
was Butler.” 

“Tt’s Tucker,” I said. 

“Tucker? Are you sure?” 

Next to me, I thought Princess D’nadia was having a stroke, she was 
laughing so hard. It was clear she also disliked this Tucker guy. 

Tucker threw his hands up in the air. “Can we move on, please? I came 
on this show because we’re supposed to be talking about important 
matters.” 

“Oh, darling,” Donut said, shaking her head. “Bless your heart.” 

After the audience’s laughter died down, there was a short segment 
regarding multiple intergalactic affairs that neither I, Donut, nor Hekla had 
much input on. For most of it, I had no idea what they were talking about. 
Some solar system had been invaded by another system. A race of people 
had applied for council membership in the Syndicate. It was mostly stuff 
like that. Even the audience seemed bored with the piece. 

The issue Tucker had been opining about regarded the Valtay 
Corporation and their attempt to collect their debt from the Borant System. 
All three of us crawlers were smart enough not to say anything stupid about 
either Borant or the Valtay, in case they did end up taking over the Crawl, 
which appeared to be highly unlikely. Manasa—for obvious reasons—was 
on the side of the Valtay. Ripper and Princess D’nadia seemed to think both 
sides were dicks, but also sided with the Valtay. Tucker was mostly on the 
side of the Kua-tin. 


Ripper moved the discussion to the Skull Empire. There was unrest in a 
few of their home systems, partially because of the whole embarrassment 
with the Pork Boy Snick. People were comparing the Skull Empire to the 
hedonistic Orcish Supremacy of the Tuskling, and new calls for democratic 
reform were popping up in their systems. People took issue with the royal 
family spending so much time and money playing around with the crawl 
and the Faction War Games, while neglecting their duties back home. King 
Rust had responded by disowning the Maestro and telling his people to shut 
the hell up. Ripper looked directly at me and asked me what I thought about 
it. 

I took a moment to formulate my response. I’d been anticipating a 
question about this subject, and I’d been mentally preparing my answer. All 
it takes is a little seed. I reached over and put my hand on Donut. 

“T don’t have all the details, of course. All I really know is what you’ve 
presented today and how that ass, Prince Maestro...” 

“Former Prince Maestro,” Donut corrected. 

“How former Prince Maestro acted. If his dad, this King Rust guy, treats 
his people like his son treats guests on his show, then they should rebel. On 
Earth, we had this fable. Basically, the story goes if you throw a frog in a 
pot of boiling water, he’ll jump right out. But if you stick that same frog in 
the water when it’s at room temperature, he’ll just sit there. He won’t move 
because everything’s fine. Then you put the pot on the heat. The 
temperature goes up, and still the frog doesn’t jump because it’s only a 
degree hotter than before. Eventually, the frog dies, boiled alive. When the 
frog was thrown in the boiling water, he immediately knew he was in 
danger. But because of the incrementalism of the heat from room 
temperature, he didn’t realize he was in danger until it was too late.” 

“That’s a really stupid metaphor,” Tucker began. 

“Stop,” Ripper said, holding up a furry paw. “Let him finish.” 

“So, I don’t really know what’s going on with their systems. I’m just a 
guy from a planet that thought we might be all alone. We got thrown right 
in and had the lid slammed on us, so Donut and I, and Hekla, we don’t have 
much of a say in what’s happening to us. But I’m guessing it’s different for 
the people who live under the Skull Empire. If it used to be okay, but it’s 
not okay anymore, then maybe you should do something about it. Don’t 
compare your circumstances with how they were yesterday. Look at how 
they were years ago. We’re supposed to be making the world... the 


universe... a better place for our children. If it’s not better, if you’re dealing 
with cruelty, with neglect, then you should do something about it. So, yeah. 
Fuck ‘em. Fuck King Rust and his asshole child. If you’re unhappy with 
your government, then kick them out and set up your own, one that 
represents the people’s best interests. You shouldn’t have to put up with 
some loser who’s going to take the people’s money and waste it on games, 
especially when those games entail killing people weaker than him with 
little or no real danger to himself. What a pussy. That’s my opinion.” 

Nobody said anything for several moments. 

“You probably don’t know this,” Tucker said, a hint of triumph in his 
voice, “but openly using tunnels to advocate for system sedition against a 
member state is a crime.” 

“If that’s true,” I said, “then you’re all in that same pot.” I turned to 
look at the audience. “All of you. If a government is afraid of what its 
people say, then maybe there’s a reason for it.” 

“Besides,” I added. “What are they gonna do? Throw me in the 
dungeon?” 

Next to me, Princess D’nadia started clapping and making trumpet 
noises with her tentacles. Hekla, who’d barely said anything this entire 
time, was looking directly at me. I couldn’t read her expression. 

Underneath my hand, Donut trembled as the audience roared their 
approval. 

But it wasn’t everyone, I noted. Some of the people—most of the people 
—cheered. But not all. Those who didn’t appeared uncomfortable. Some 
looked annoyed. That was okay. Baby steps. That frog metaphor worked 
both ways. 

“Well,” Ripper said, “they told me you two tend to leave a path of 
scorched earth wherever you...” 

In front of me, Manasa the cobra blinked in and out of existence and 
then she disappeared. The entire studio bucked, and Donut and I both fell 
back out of our chairs. The lights flickered as Donut cried out. I hit the 
floor, and my HUD, which had been off since we’d arrived in the 
production trailer, turned on. 

“Carl, Carl, I’m going to be sick.” 

The trailer continued to rock. The sea, which had been dead calm, now 
roiled. 


The studio was gone, and all that remained were our two chairs and a 
half table. Donna the robot entered the room. “Please remain calm. The 
system will be restored in fifteen seconds.” 

Zev: Oh my gods, are you two okay? 

Carl: What the hell is going on? 

The HUD snapped away, and the studio returned as the boat started to 
settle. Ripper, Princess D’nadia, and Tucker remained in their chairs. Ripper 
talked animatedly with someone we couldn’t see. Hekla stood behind her 
seat, and I suspected she had also been knocked out of her chair, which 
meant her trailer was probably floating nearby. She hesitantly sat back 
down. The cobra-headed Manasa did not return. 

“Are you injured?” Princess D’nadia whispered to me. 

“We’re fine. The trailer started pitching. What happened?” 

“They’re saying there was an attack on Manasa’s trailer. She’s 
vacationing on Earth, and she’d ascended to participate in the interview. 
They say her trailer got hit with a pulse. That’s all I know.” 

“What about you, are you okay?” I asked Hekla. 

“Yes,” she said. “I am fine.” 

“Yeah, us too,” I said. 

“I threw up,” Donut said, looking up at me. She had puke all down the 
front of her face. I used the thick fabric from my Nightgaunt cloak to clean 
off her fur the best I could. 

“Are you kidding? Are you kidding me?” Ripper said to his invisible 
assistant. “Let me see the statement.” He turned and looked at me and 
Donut. The furry host opened his mouth, as if he were going to say 
something, but then he changed his mind. 

Instead, he turned to his audience. “Ladies and gentleman, I’m sorry 
about that. Something just happened on Earth’s surface, and we’re still 
gathering information. Manasa has lost her signal, so I’m afraid we won’t 
have her back. Stay tunneled, and we’ll get you information straight away. 
In the meantime, let’s go straight into the Danger Zone.” 

Nothing happened for a moment, and then suddenly a female owl 
creature stood at the end of the table. She’d appeared out of nowhere. 

“Hi,” the owl said. “I have a question for Hekla. Why did you leave 
your husband to fend for himself when you both entered the dungeon? And 
do you regret it?” 


Hekla appeared stricken by the question. The abrupt change of subject 
with everything happening around us seemed so sudden, so out of place that 
it was almost absurd. Apparently, they called the Q&A section of the 
program “The Danger Zone.” Behind us, Ripper had disappeared. Tucker 
was turned all the way around in his seat, talking quietly with someone 
offscreen. Next to me, Princess D’nadia had her head cocked to the side and 
was also listening to something or someone hidden. 

“I,” Hekla said, stammering “I... He left me. He didn’t leave me a 
choice. He was going to get us both killed. Now he’s dead, and I’m not.” 

“And do you regret it?” the owl repeated. 

“Of course I do,” she said. 

“Thank you,” the owl said. She disappeared and was replaced by a male 
Orc. 

“T am Rolf,” the orc said. “This question is for Carl. What is your most 
enjoyable way to kill?” 

“That’s kind of a fucked up question,” I said. “I don’t like killing.” 

“No?” Rolf said. “But you kill good.” 

“He does, doesn’t he?” said Donut. 

“I guess I like it when it’s simple, clean,” I said. “A quick punch, 
breaking their neck.” 

Rolf made a fist in the air. “This is good. Thank you.” 

The next question was about Hekla’s crossbow. The one after that was a 
fish creature that looked like a human-sized Kua-tin. I think Odette had 
called them Gleeners. She looked directly at Donut. 

“Princess, who is Ferdinand?” 

Several people in the audience clapped at the question. 

Donut tensed, but then she relaxed. “Oh darling, I just love that outfit 
you’re wearing. It’s so pretty. But you are right to ask. This secret has 
festered for far too long, and I suppose it’s time for the universe to know the 
truth.” She sighed dramatically. “Ferdinand is the love of my life. But 
we've had a tragic courtship. He visited me often at night. We’d gaze upon 
each other across the wide expanse, and we both knew it was a love that 
couldn’t be. For we were star-crossed lovers, and he was hunted by the 
authorities. In royal circles, he was reviled, branded as a ‘Moggie,’ a non- 
pedigreed cat. It is why I’d jumped out the window that night. I could sense 
him out there, calling to me.” 


“Wait,” I said. “Are you talking about that creepy yellow cat that would 
come to the window when you were in heat?” 

“Yes, I am, Carl,” Donut said. “I imagine it’s time you learned of my 
secret affair. A princess and a ruffian. It wasn’t meant to be, but our love 
was pure.” 

I couldn’t help it. I laughed. “His name wasn’t Ferdinand. His name was 
Gravy Boat. He belonged to Marjory on the first floor.” 

The cat had also knocked up every female cat within three square 
blocks. Bea had called animal control on him twice, but they’d never been 
able to find or catch him. Bea had gotten into a screaming fight with 
Marjory over it, though I was never really clear on the reasons why Bea had 
cared so much. Gravy Boat sitting in that tree outside our window wasn’t 
nearly as annoying as Donut yowling while she was in heat. 

“He preferred Ferdinand,” sniffed Donut. 

The Gleener disappeared and was replaced by an elf-like creature 
wearing a top hat. 

“Hello,” the elf said. “My name is Chappy. My question is also for 
Donut. “If Bea is alive, and she shows up, are you really going to leave Carl 
for her?” 

A chill washed over me. I looked sharply at Donut, who looked back up 
at me with a look of confusion on her face. 

“When we reunite with Miss Beatrice, we will all work together. It will 
be like before.” 

Chappy seemed perplexed by her answer. “Surely you don’t think Carl 
will want to stay with her.” He turned his gaze to me. “Carl?” 

This was a situation that was never going to manifest itself because the 
odds of Bea being anything but dead were astronomical. And if she wasn’t 
dead by some miracle, one of these talk shows would’ve dug her up by 
now. Nevertheless, it was a conversation I still needed to have with Donut. 
But I wouldn’t be having it on live television. Fuck that. I mumbled, “We’ll 
cross that bridge when...” 

“I’m sorry to interrupt folks,” Ripper said, his voice quavering. I could 
tell he was angry, and he was barely holding it in. “But we have some 
breaking news to share. As you all saw, our program was interrupted. We 
now have verification that this was because of a senseless pulse attack on a 
production asset housing our friend and frequent guest Manasa. I am sorry 
to say, it appears she has perished in the attack.” Gasps and cries of surprise 


and astonishment filled the audience. Ripper lifted his paw to calm them 
down. Next to me, Princess D’nadia wept. Black oil cascaded down the 
front of her cephalopod face. “But there’s more. In a tragic twist to this 
story, it is apparent she was not the target of the attack. Simultaneous with 
the pulse...” Ripper paused, unsuccessfully attempting to compose himself. 
His anger bubbled over into his voice. “...Prince Stalwart of the Skull 
Empire released the following statement.” 

A screen appeared. The coarse-haired, wild boar creature sat behind a 
desk. Prince Stalwart, crown prince of the Skull Empire, looked very much 
like his disgraced younger brother. While the Maestro had been overly 
muscular, Stalwart was leaner, but he still exuded power and strength. And 
cruelty. Even before he spoke, I could see it in his pig eyes. 

Over the orc’s shoulder was a window overlooking a large, green field 
that spread into the far distance. The dots of hundreds of soldiers marching 
in formation appeared down below. The camera was angled to view the 
field perfectly. 

He’s on the ninth floor right now, I thought. He’s setting up the faction 
wars segment of the game. 

“Citizens of the Syndicate. By the time this message hits the tunnel, the 
earth creatures Carl and Donut will have been executed by a pulse fired 
from my personal yacht. The Skull Empire will pay for any damages to any 
private property destroyed in the attack. We are claiming, under the 
Syndicate rules regarding independent system sovereignty, that this 
summary execution is both justified and appropriate given Carl’s statements 
advocating sedition. That is all.” The message snapped off. 

“That was quick,” Donut muttered. 

“You can say that again,” I said. The attack had come barely two 
minutes after I’d spoken out. 

“They hit the wrong trailer,” Tucker said. He looked at us. His earlier 
snootiness was gone. He sounded in shock. “It was meant for you.” 

“Manasa had switched trailers,” Princess D’nadia said. “They said you 
needed cleaning facilities, and she offered to trade.” The princess could 
barely speak, she was so upset. “She was my friend. For countless years, 
she’d been my friend. Even though she was a worm head, we’d been close 
for so long.” She turned to the audience and cleared her voice. She sat up 
straighter in her chair. “The Prism Kingdom officially condemns this action 


by the Skull Empire, and we will be filing an immediate grievance with the 
Syndicate Court.” 

“The Valtay and the Skull Empire are strong allies,’ Tucker said. 
“Surely they’ ll see this as a tragic accident.” 

“Do you know how much money Manasa brings in for the Valtay each 
year?” Ripper said. “Those idiots. Stupid, stupid. She was a treasure. People 
think their technological sector brings in the most, but that’s not true. Not 
even close. It’s their entertainment assets. They just murdered her.” 

I felt a sudden wave of anger wash over me. Now you’re outraged? 
When it was your friend? The cognitive dissonance was just overwhelming. 
I didn’t dare say it out loud, but what the hell? They destroyed us, destroyed 
our planet. And one poorly-shot missile or whatever the hell it was, and 
suddenly it’s a tragedy. Fuck you. Fuck you all. 

“Carl,” Donut said, concern to her voice. “Carl, if they know they hit 
the wrong trailer will they shoot at us again? Maybe we should go.” 

Ripper looked at us, and waved at us to remain seated. “It’s okay. 
You’re okay. This just in. I am getting word now. The Valtay are claiming 
one of their dreadnaughts in earth orbit has destroyed Prince Stalwart’s 
yacht. Again, the Valtay are claiming to have destroyed a Skull Empire 
royal vessel. From the message, it is clear Stalwart was not on board at the 
time, but it is rumored that both Queen Consort Ugloo and former prince 
Maestro were on board.” 

“So much for their alliance,” Tucker said. “That weakens Valtay’s 
position on the bankruptcy action.” 

“Shut the fuck up, Tucker,” Princess D’nadia said. “By the gods, our 
friend has been murdered.” 

“Wait, did he say the Maestro is dead?” said Donut. “Carl, did you hear 
that?” 

“T heard, Donut.” 

As Ripper continued to breathlessly repeat everything that had 
happened, I met eyes with Hekla, who continued to sit quietly across the 
table, a rock in the storm. She studied me curiously. 

“Is this how it always is with you two, then?” she asked. “What was it 
he said? Scorched earth?” 

I nodded. I put my hand on Donut. 

“With a little bit of chaos thrown in,” I said. 


OceanofPDE.com 


[ 20 ] 


RIPPER WONTON PLAYED A VIDEO OF MANASA SINGING, HER FINAL 
performance. The large cobra was in an opulent dining room, singing a 
cappella in a hauntingly sad soprano voice. The entire studio watched in 
dead silence. It gave me the chills. 

“Wow,” Donut whispered as the song was done. 

The show ended shortly thereafter, and the virtual studio faded away, 
leaving me and Donut alone in the room. Hekla and the others disappeared 
before we could say our goodbyes. We got up and returned to the lounge. 

I moved to the small window by the bathroom, and sure enough one of 
the two trailers floating out there was gone. It had been replaced by 
hundreds of floating probes of all sizes, zipping about, scanning the water. 
Two of them whizzed toward me the moment I stuck my head in the 
window, but before they could get too close, the glass snapped shut like a 
camera shutter. 

My HUD flickered back on. 

Zev: PI] meet you guys at the saferoom. Prepare to be transported 
in a few moments. 

Carl: See you there. 

“She was really nice. Manasa, I mean. I liked her,” Donut said as we 
waited. She released Mongo from his pet carrier, and he hopped up and 
down with excitement. He rushed into the bathroom and stood upon the 
cleaning treadmill. He grunted angrily when it didn’t automatically start up. 

“Yeah,” I said. “That was too bad.” 

“Do you really believe all that stuff you just said? About people rising 
up?” Donut asked. 


I shrugged. “It’s a little naive. It’s a nice fantasy, but I know the 
universe doesn’t really work that way. For all we know, that king guy’s 
people are really happy. Just because people complain about stuff doesn’t 
mean they have it bad. Besides, I’m a nobody. It’s not like I have the power 
to change anything. I wasn’t expecting that, though. Jesus.” 

“Yeah, Mordecai is going to be mad. He said you needed to make fun of 
him a little. Not kill his wife.” 

We still didn’t know all the details as to why Mordecai had suggested 
we needle at the king if given the opportunity. He never went into detail 
with this sort of stuff. He was always spouting off things for us to do and 
keep an eye out for. Monster types. Herbs. Loot. Ways to act if we came 
across certain types of NPCs. We’d started calling it the daily BOLO. Be on 
the lookout. Donut had come up with the term. She’d once watched a 
marathon of Law and Order. I suspected the thing with King Rust was long- 
term strategy, something to do with the ninth floor if we ever got there. 
Mordecai wanted us to insult the king so we’d stay on his radar, probably so 
it’d be easier to bait him later. 

I meant what I said to Donut. I knew a random dude from the crawl 
spouting off about revolution wasn’t going to spark some great intergalactic 
crisis. Still, seeds. Mordecai had his plans. I had my own. 

That said, there was something else going on, another, invisible player 
on the chessboard, so to speak. It’d been bothering me from the moment we 
listened to Prince Stalwart’s message. 

Carl: We need to be careful. Never even hint of this out loud. I 
think we were set up. 

Donut: WHAT DO YOU MEAN? 

Carl: That Stalwart dude was too prepared with his statement. 
They had the camera all ready with the army right outside the window. 
Stalwart was planning on killing us from the start. I don’t think they 
were expecting my little speech there, but it played right into their 
hands. 

Donut: BUT THEY MISSED. 

Carl: Stalwart was being played, too. We were just the pawns, the 
bait. And so was Manasa. Whoever is orchestrating this knew the orcs 
planned on killing us. That switcheroo was either on purpose to get 
them to really kill their ally, or they quickly jumped on the 


opportunity. It humiliates them and damages their alliance with the 
Valtay. Who benefits the most from that? 

Donut: MANASA HAD THE VOICE OF AN ANGEL. NOBODY 
BENEFITS FROM IT. 

Carl: No, that’s not true. Borant benefits. Big time. If Valtay loses a 
powerful ally, maybe even goes to war with the Skull Empire over this, 
then they won’t have time to try to take over the Borant system. But I 
don’t know for sure. We have so little information. 

Donut: OR MAYBE NOBODY ELSE WAS INVOLVED. THE 
ORCS WERE GOING TO KILL US, YES, BUT WE JUST GOT 
LUCKY. 

Carl: Maybe. If so, that was really lucky for both us and Borant. 

Donut: DO YOU THINK ZEV IS MAD AT US FOR WHAT YOU 
SAID? 

Carl: Let’s find out. 


“Oh my gods,” Zev said as we returned to the saferoom. She’d returned us 
to the same one we’d been in when we’d left, the one near the pool with the 
exploded boss corpse. She stood there in the middle of the room, wearing 
her ever-present spacesuit, having arrived before we did. Our HUD didn’t 
shut off like usual when she was in the room. I didn’t know if that was 
some sort of oversight or a bug because she’d arrived first. “That was 
terrifying. I thought you two were dead for certain.” 

“What happened?” Mordecai asked, looking between us. Donut began 
to excitedly tell him the story, Donut-style. She started by explaining the 
cleaning mechanism in the trailer, going into extreme, unnecessary detail. 

“How did they even know what trailer we were in?” I asked Zev as 
Donut continued to regale Mordecai. “I mean, they were wrong, but only 
because we switched at the last minute.” 

“That stuff isn’t a secret,” Zev said. “Rental trailers throw their booking 
schedules out there for anybody to see so they can coordinate availability. 
Before today, there’s never been a reason to hide who is using what trailer. 
Nobody has ever attempted to assassinate a crawler outside the dungeon. 
What a nightmare.” 


“Stop,” Mordecai said, raising a hand to Donut. “What happened?” 

Donut took a deep breath. “Carl called the orc king a pussy, and his 
son’s spaceship lasered the production trailer from orbit. But we’d switched 
with Manasa, and she got blown up instead.” 

Mordecai looked at me, horrified. “Manasa, the singer? She was 
killed?” 

“She was so nice,” Donut said. “She said she thought Mongo was 
adorable.” 

Mordecai: I distinctly remember saying you should be subtle. 

Carl: I may have gone a little overboard. It gets worse. 

“There’s more,” Zev said. “The Valtay responded by blowing the royal 
yacht into dust. The queen consort and Maestro were believed to be on 
board.” 

“For fuck’s sake,” Mordecai said. 

“Hey, all they asked me for was my opinion. It’s not my fault Prince pig 
face overreacted. It sucks the mom got killed, but if she’s the one who 
raised those two, it’s probably not a big loss.” 

“The good news is that nobody is saying anything negative about Carl 
and Donut on the net. Prince Stalwart is the villain. Wow. Rust is gonna 
have to disown him, too. I hadn’t thought of that. That only leaves the sister 
as the heir. Our team is fielding a wave of interview requests, but Dungeon 
Crawler After Hours with Odette has the contract on your next interview.” 

“That’s fine,” I said. “I’m not too keen on going on any more interviews 
right now anyway.” 

Zev left soon thereafter, leaving us in the empty saferoom. Mordecai 
indicated for us to sit down. 

Mordecai: Okay, new rule. We are not meddling with, mentioning, 
or talking about any other entities outside of the dungeon from now on. 
We’ re not going to mention King Rust or Prince Stalwart until after the 
sixth floor, if you two idiots make it that far. When Odette asks you 
about it, you say you have no opinion. You only talk about stuff 
happening in the dungeon. 

Carl: So no more making fun of King Rust? 

Donut: TALKING SMACK IS MY SPECIAL TALENT. MANASA 
AND PRINCESS D’NADIA BOTH SAID SO. 

Mordecai: His wife is dead. He’s neck-deep in shit. It’s not your 
fault, but he’s going to see it that way. I wanted to make sure the Skull 


Clan targeted the Blood Sultanate once you hit the ninth floor. I don’t 
think that’s going to be an issue now. Let’s just hope he’s not too mad 
at you two. 

Carl: Why? What can he do to us here? 

Mordecai: Besides assassinating you while you’re on the surface? 
Nothing yet. That’s going to change very soon. We’ll deal with it when 
it happens. 

“Well, there’s nothing we can do about any of this now, is there?” I said 
out loud. “We still have daylight, and we have a ton to do. We need to get 
back into town. We have a militia to break up and a magistrate’s office to 
break into.” 


One of the mysteries of the Sex Worker quest was how the city elves of the 
201st Security Group figured in all of this. Assuming this Featherfall guy 
was the lead baddie, then their presence in conjunction with the random 
undead monsters made sense. The city elves worshiped the skyfowl as 
living angels, and this town’s lead skyfowl was a dark cleric who 
commanded the undead. The city elves were basically a free source of 
enthusiastic labor that Featherfall was using to help corral his undead 
minions. 

We still didn’t know what the hell was going on with the dead 
prostitutes. That was okay for now. I didn’t need to know exactly what was 
happening to know the best way to weaken the head dude’s plans was to 
first knock out one of his support networks. 

I didn’t like the idea of going full murder hobo on a group of mentally 
ill elves. Still, if this group was targeting innocent NPCs and killing them, 
then I didn’t hold much sympathy. Plus, they’d tried to kill us twice. If we 
didn’t take them on now, it was going to just keep happening. 

While we were in the middle of our interview, Mordecai had ventured 
into town and located their headquarters for us. It wasn’t difficult. They had 
a sign and a trio of city elves out front attempting to talk those passing by to 
enter and hear “The good news about Apito the Oak Mother.” 

They were only two blocks away from the Magistrate’s quarters, 
situated on a mostly-residential street in a poorer section of town. 


When we left the saferoom, a handful of the shambling berserkers 
remained in the ruins, hanging out nearby. We rushed to the roof of a 
building and killed from afar. I didn’t want to waste my hob-lobbers unless 
I had to, so instead I tried tossing a stick of hobgoblin dynamite. I’d never 
used the upgraded dynamite before, and I was glad I hadn’t tried it while I 
was on the ground. The sticks were practically mini nukes. I used my 
upgraded strength to hurl a stick at a shambler a half block away. The 
resulting explosion knocked me off my feet. The front façade of a distant 
building collapsed, caving in on itself and filling the street with debris. 

I stood and examined the damage, my ears ringing. I’d obliterated the 
shambler and killed the one behind it. Smoke swirled, dust filling the air. 

Uh-oh, I thought. 

The dynamite’s power was great, but the sticks were utterly impractical 
to use in regular fights. Even with my strength, I wasn’t so sure I could toss 
them far enough to be safe when I wasn’t two stories up. 

“My goodness,” Donut said. “You need to be careful with those things, 
Carl.” She returned to my shoulder. In the distance, a third shambler had 
turned and was now approaching from another road that wasn’t blocked 
with rubble. 

I wished I had a method of tossing them further. With my xistera, I 
could toss a hob-lobber four times the distance, but the sticks weren’t 
shaped properly for the basket. I pulled another hobgoblin dynamite stick 
out and looked at it. 

“Wait, are those the same ones you used for the thing?” Donut asked. 

“Yeah,” I said. “Three of them.” 

“Maybe we should have tested them first,” she said. 

“That’s what they’re gonna put on my tombstone.” 

“Don’t be silly, Carl. They don’t give us tombstones here.” 

I laughed. 

“You know it tells me I can’t touch them,” Donut continued, peering 
down at the white stick. “It says there’s a 75% chance it’ll explode if I try 
to.” 

“Really?” I said. The stick’s stability remained at 80% for me, which 
meant I could bonk myself on the head with it and nothing would happen. 

“I don’t think you’re supposed to touch that stuff unless you have the 
proper skill. Or you’re desperate. And I thought the goblin dynamite was 


scary. I wonder if there’s something even higher on the list?” she asked. 
“What’s the next step above hobgoblin?” 

“I don’t know,” I said. “I don’t know if there is one.” My explosives 
handling and dangerous explosives handling skills had both risen to nine. 
Both skills increased the yield of the explosions. As it was now, a single 
stick of hobgoblin dynamite could kill most anything. 

No, not everything. I thought of the divine guardian. The country boss 
from the 12th floor that we’d seen on that brief clip on the recap show. That 
thing wouldn’t even notice if I’d shoved an entire case of the things down 
its throat. 

Thwump. Donut’s Magic Missile took out the third shambling berserker. 

In the distance, the sun sank low. We only had a good two hours of 
sunlight left, and I needed to use them. “Come on,” I said. “Let’s go talk to 
the elves.” 


The sign didn’t announce the building as the headquarters of the 201st 
Security Group, but as we approached, it was clear that Mordecai’s 
intelligence was correct. The simple, hand-painted sign over the building 
held the symbol of a tree with the words Apito Education Center. On my 
minimap, the building was labeled as a Corrupt Temple. A quick note to 
Mordecai confirmed that anything labeled “corrupt” meant that mobs could 
be within. 

Three city elves stood out front, each of them holding a stick with an 
acorn hanging off the end. They were unsuccessfully attempting to hand the 
sticks to anyone who passed. None wore the uniform shirt. All three wore 
simple, unadorned brown robes that appeared dirty, as if they spent most of 
the day gardening. 

The building, unfortunately, shared a wall with a residence. About 
fifteen dwarven kids rushed about the street, laughing and play-fighting. 
They ranged in age from about five to twelve, and based on the similar 
manner of their dirty, patched clothing, I guessed they were all siblings, 
including multiple pairs of twins and triplets. One of the older kids held a 
stick with a small salamander tied to the end, and he was chasing his 
brothers and sisters about as they all howled. I think it was supposed to be a 


mockery of the elves. The stick-wielding kid jabbed the poor hissing 
Salamander toward one of the robed figures. The tiny lizard expelled a 
single spark of flames at the city elf, who cursed and kicked at the child. 
Another kid picked up a rock and chucked it at the elf, who in turn raised 
his hand and cast a spell that reflected the rock back at him. The rock 
bounced off the kid’s head, who started wailing. His siblings surrounded 
him, and they all piled inside the house next to the temple. 

On the corner at the end of the street stood a pair of stoic village 
swordsmen. They paid no heed to the disturbance. It must be a regular 
thing. I checked the position of the sun. We still had a good hour before the 
guards would disappear for the day. 

The stick with the small salamander was left in the middle of the street. 
The poor lizard was trying to drag himself away. I was going to untie the 
little guy, but Mongo jumped forward and swallowed the salamander 
whole, taking half the stick with it. 

“Mongo, gross,” I said. “Stop eating stuff you find on the ground.” 

The raptor made a face, as if the salamander had tasted foul. He made a 
retching noise. 

“That’s what you get,” I said. 

“You need to chew your food, Mongo,” Donut said. 

The three city elf NPCs glared at us as we approached. One of them 
rushed inside. 

“Hello Carl,” one of them said. He turned to Donut, sneering. 
“Disgusting, vile blasphemer.” 

“Me?” Donut said. “What did I do?” 

I examined the elf. 

Salvatore. City Elf. Level 16. 

Root Druid. 

Temple Recruitment Wand Bearer. 

The Wand Bearers are the warm and fuzzy faces of the Apito 
Education Center, which is the outreach department of the 201st 
Security Group militia. While oftentimes doubling as door guards, the 
Wand Bearers are some of the most pious, most indoctrinated, and 
therefore, the most dangerous members of the silly little cult. 

This particular group consists of members of the Magical Ops arm 
of the 201st. Translation: If you’re gonna dance with these guys, be 
prepared to deal with all sorts of magical schools. 


The second elf was named Carmine, and his description was almost 
identical, except instead of a Root Druid, it said he was a Wind Mage. 

“How do you know our names?” I asked. 

Salvatore spit on the ground. “Eat moss and die, apostate. The master 
told us the Oak Fell and their rotting assistants would come to the city soon, 
and the final battle for heaven would commence.” He looked down at 
Donut, snarling. “When you agreed to help that orc, we knew it was you. 
You even wear the filthy symbol of your blasphemy.” 

“What the flying fuck are you talking about?” I asked. 

Carl: Mordecai. Quick. What the hell is the “Oak Fell?” Also, once 
again, our charm isn’t working on these guys. 

Mordecai: The Oak Fell is Apito’s version of the antichrist. That’s 
not stuff one usually contends with until the 12th floor. We need to get 
you two a Dispel Protections spell, which’ll handle the anti-charm and 
other security protocols these quest locations usually have. They’re 
annoyingly common in skyfowl settlements. 

“We had to torture her to tease your name from her lips,” Salvatore was 
saying. 

The third city elf returned, followed by a half dozen more of his friends. 
These guys weren’t wearing the brown robes, but the uniforms of the 201st. 
They formed a semi-circle around the entrance, blocking it. All of them 
were level 16, but there was a menagerie of magic types, from a Fire Mage 
to a Summoner to a Light Healer. Their dots remained white on the map. 
For now. 

“Wait, you had to torture who?” I asked. I’d missed what he said 
because I was talking to Mordecai. 

“GumGum,” the city elf said. “She was serving an important purpose, 
removing the unworthy filth from the streets. But then she started asking 
questions. Questions, it turns out, that attracted the Oak Fell. Just as the 
Master predicted.” 

“You tortured GumGum?” Donut asked, her voice incredulous. Next to 
her, Mongo growled. Actually, I realized it was more of a retching noise. 
The dinosaur was looking a little green. That salamander wasn’t sitting well 
in his gut. Still, the noise he’d made sounded downright menacing. The city 
elves all tensed. Easy, easy. Not yet. 

“Yes,” Salvatore said. “Just as we shall torture you. You defeated our 
champion, Vicente. He trained his entire life for the final battle. Now he 


blossoms on Her tree. The master had warned us a single champion would 
not be enough. We are chastened that we did not follow his guidance. We 
shall not make that mistake again. Now you will face all of us.” 

“You nine are all of you?” I asked. 

“We were twelve, but now we are nine,” Salvatore said. “Just as it was 
in the scriptures during the great Fall.” 

“Vicente? Is that the guy whose head I blew off? And you kicked in the 
nuts?” Donut asked. She turned to face me. All nine of the city elves hissed 
in unison and took a step back. 

Donut looked back over her shoulder. “What? Are you scared of my 
butt or something? Pll have you know it is glorious.” She waggled it at the 
elves, jingling the crupper that hung like a skirt across her backside. “This 
is an award-winning derriere!” 

One of the elves, a type of mage called an “Icer” growled. His dot on 
the map flickered to red then back to white. They were all looking down at 
Donut with scowls and dismay. 

Donut: CARL THEY ARE GOING TO ATTACK US. 

Carl: Don’t move. Stay in that position. Shake your left rear leg. 

Donut lifted her back leg, revealing the small, magical anklet with the 
three little beads. She shook her foot, and the beads made a rattling noise. 
The elves growled and hissed like a pack of wild animals. One of them, the 
female Light Healer, started scratching at her own face, causing rivulets of 
blood to form. 

What the actual fuck was wrong with these assholes? 

They were scared of Donut’s anklet. We’d found it on a dead crawler 
who’d been killed by the lemurs. I remembered it only gave a couple of 
minor stat boosts and a skill called Double Tap. There wasn’t anything too 
remarkable about it except its name, The Enchanted Anklet of the Fallen 
Oak. 

The description was all about how I shouldn’t wear it, which was why 
Pd given it to Donut. Apparently, these guys weren’t fans of magical items 
made from oakwood. I guessed that made sense since this Apito lady was 
called the Oak Mother. Pd be pretty upset too if someone was walking 
around with jewelry made out of dead babies. 

“Let me get this straight,” I said, looking at Salvatore, who wouldn’t 
stop spitting on the ground like a damn maniac. The whole group had 
devolved from a bunch of angry, but competent-appearing magic users to 


this unstable mess of nutjobs who all looked as if they’d just escaped a 
mental hospital. The transformation had occurred in seconds. The fire mage 
had pissed himself. The summoner was sucking his thumb. “You assholes 
think Donut here is this Oak Fell antichrist person because she’s wearing 
that anklet?” 

“I told you wood jewelry is ugly,” Donut grumbled. 

“You are the bearer of the forbidden oak,” Salvatore said, speaking 
directly to Donut. He stood stiffly, formally. He pulled the acorn off the tree 
branch still in his hand and ate it, crunching loudly. His entire form started 
to glow blue. Magical Fervor appeared over his head. The others all 
produced acorns and ate them. Soon, the entire group glowed. 

Carl: Magical Fervor. 

Mordecai: Triples their mana points and increases their strength. It 
also makes them glow and talk really loud. They’ll be immune to your 
Fear. 

Ahh shit, I thought. The plan had been to goad these guys into attacking 
us in front of the town guards. As long as they made the first move, 
Mordecai assured us the guards would fight on our side. But now I was 
worried the two swordsmen at the end of the street wouldn’t be enough for 
this. 

Protective Shell wouldn’t protect us from magical attacks. I had my 
Wisp Armor, but that wouldn’t help Donut. My mind raced. We had two 
different plays in our book that might work. We had “Mold Lion,” which 
was named after the first fight we’d used the plan in. The second, newest 
one, was called “Mic Drop.” That one would probably work better, but it 
would likely end with the guards hunting us, which was something I wanted 
to avoid if possible. 

Donut: Mold Lion again? 

Carl: I think so. Get ready. 

I prepared to jump forward into their midst. Pd cast Protective Shell 
anyway, which would physically launch them in every which direction. 
Like with the mold lions, it would hopefully kill a couple. If so, Donut 
would have a few precious moments to raise them from the dead, which 
would give us a few meat shields and even out the odds. 

Salvatore continued his rant, but under the influence of the Magical 
Fervor buff, his voice carried as if over a loudspeaker. I kept my eyes glued 
to the dots on the minimap, waiting for them to tum red. If I moved a 


second too soon, we’d be doubly fucked. The shell wouldn’t push the elves, 
and the swordsmen guards would move in on us instead. “The angel, our 
master, prepares us for the end of days,” Salvatore squealed. “He has almost 
achieved all his tasks. We are prepared to blossom on Her. We, the 201st 
Security Group, are prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice to protect the 
angel, who in turn works toward Apito’s vision of the Plantation. Apito 
warns us of the great beast who yearns to unravel the heavens and kill all 
the gods. And now, this great deceiver, this devourer of all that is holy, has a 
name. She is Donut, the Oak Fell. The Death Upon Us All. She Who Ends. 
And with the help of my brothers and sisters, I will...” 

Thwap! 

Salvatore crumpled to the ground, screaming as he clutched at his head. 
The enormously-pregnant, female dwarf hit him again with the rolling pin, 
yelling. Behind her, the group of young dwarves who’d been playing in the 
street all returned. The rock-thrower from before had a massive bandage 
around his head. The one who’d been holding the salamander on the stick 
picked up the broken branch and stared at it. 

“Where’s Benjamin?” he called. 

The dwarf woman, who was apparently the mother of the entire crew, 
continued to pummel Salvatore with the rolling pin. “Throw a rock at my 
boy, will ya! PIl teach ya a lesson ye’ll never forget ye crazy lump of 
reconstituted snail shit! You arseholes waving yer silly branches all about 
all day long! We is sick of it, we is!” 

Thwap! Thwap! Thwap! 

Down the street, the two swordsmen guards turned toward the scuffle. 

The pregnant dwarf stopped bashing in the head of the elf, who wasn’t 
quite dead, but he wasn’t getting up anytime soon, either. I read the name 
over her head. Eunice. Level 30. Fathom Dwarf. She stood up, glaring at 
the other elves. Silence followed, punctuated only by the sound of her 
heavy breathing and the blood dripping from the rolling pin. The harsh odor 
of urine filled the street. 

I stared in surprised astonishment at the tableau. The woman had come 
out of nowhere. The other elves looked at each other, none of them moving, 
equally frozen with surprise by the unexpected violence. The summoner elf 
continued to suck his thumb. The healer continued to scratch at her own 
face. The scene only held this way for but a moment, though it seemed to 
go on forever. 


The stalemate ended when Mongo yakked the salamander back out onto 
the street. 

The small, now-dead lizard was still tied to the end of a broken stick. It 
landed in a slimy puddle with a plop. 

“Benjamin?” the young dwarf asked, stepping forward. His name was 
Ricky Joe. Level 2. Juvenile Fathom Dwarf. He looked at the unmoving 
salamander. “Benjamin?” 

It all went downhill from there. 

The Icer elf, the first to break from his shock, shot a bobomerang-shaped 
pulse at Eunice the dwarf. It hit the pregnant woman square in the chest, 
and she rocketed back, frozen solid. Her health moved to the red. A second, 
smaller health bar appeared over her stomach. This one was also in the red, 
though not as deep. Frosted appeared with a sixty-second countdown. The 
young dwarves all cried out, running to their mother. All except young 
Ricky Joe, who knelt before Benjamin the dead salamander. His lower lip 
quivered as he picked up the broken stick. Slime dripped off. 

At this moment, not a single dot on the map was yet red. But the 
swordsmen guards clomped noisily onto the scene, unsheathing their 
massive weapons. They moved toward the frozen, pregnant dwarf. The 
remaining children scattered, rushing across the street, all except the one 
with the bandage on his head, who draped himself over his mother’s form. 

“Leave me mum alone!” 

The guards did not care. They both lifted their swords over their heads. 

I was very aware that what I did next would be considered a Very 
Stupid Thing. 

I was also aware that nobody left on the street at this moment was 
innocent. Nobody except maybe Benjamin, who was already dead, and the 
baby dwarf in Eunice’s belly. The elves were assholes. The rock-throwing 
dwarf kid was a prick who’d gotten what he deserved. Eunice obviously 
had some anger—and birth control—issues she needed to work out. And 
Ricky Joe the salamander torturer was obviously well on the path toward 
the life of a serial killer. 

All of this ran through my head as I attacked the guards. 

I formed a fist, stepped forward, and I punched the closest of the two 
level-75 village swordsmen as hard as I could. 

My fist smashed into the side of the armored creature. It was as if Pd 
punched the side of a Sherman tank. I left an impression in the metal, but 


the guard did not stagger. A health bar did not appear. He and his 
companion paused their attack and turned toward me. Both of their dots 
turned red on the map. 

Uh-oh. 

Warning: You have been branded as a troublemaker at this 
settlement. Guards will now attack you on sight. 

The same moment as I punched the guard, young Ricky Joe did decided 
to also enter the idiot-of-the-day contest. 

The boy, still clutching the half-stick of wood with the dead salamander 
tied onto it punched Mongo the velociraptor in the face. 

“You killed my best friend! You...” 

The boy moved to punch a second time, but when he pulled his arm 
back, he found that it was no longer there. Mongo, quick as a snake, had 
bitten off the dwarf’s arm below the elbow, swallowing it along with 
Benjamin for the second time. 

“Mongo, hold!” Donut yelled, saving the idiot boy’s life. For now. The 
dinosaur, once again, looked ill. 

I leaped back into the midst of the still-gawking magic users as the 
swordsman’s wide blade smashed into the ground. The blade missed me, 
instead drilling into Salvatore, who’d just been healed back to 
consciousness by the face-scratching light healer. He’d been sitting on the 
ground, shaking his head. He was cleaved in half, cut right down the center 
like a damn bagel. 

Behind the guards, the children swarmed their still-frozen mother and 
began pulling her back across the street. And standing between the guards 
was little Ricky Joe, looking at the stump of his arm which was now 
shooting blood into the air like one of those summertime sprinklers for kids. 
I reached forward and picked the heavy dwarf child up, shoving him under 
my left arm like a football as I pulled a boom jug into my right arm. 

“Mic drop!” I yelled. 

“Are we taking the kid?” Donut cried, wasting a precious second. I 
jumped out of the way of another sword cleave. These things were strong, 
practically indestructible, but they were also slow as hell. 

“Yes, go!” I lit the torch on the boom jug. 

“Set!” Donut shouted. 

I lightly tossed the lit jug straight up into the air. I watched it rise as I 
mentally counted down the two seconds. The jug reached its apex and 


started its descent right toward my head. 

All four of us—Me, Donut, Mongo, and Ricky Joe—blinked away, 
reappearing on the roof of a building across the street thanks to Donut’s 
Puddle Jumper spell. 

I whirled, facing the scene just in time to see the boom jug hit the 
ground and fully engulf everyone and everything standing there by the 
entrance to the temple. The remaining eight city elves were instantly 
crisped. The two city guards, both of them in the process of swinging their 
swords at me, recovered and looked at each other. A health bar appeared 
over both of them, though it barely moved, and they seemed oblivious to 
the raging fire. They stepped away from the conflagration. They faced the 
fire and stopped moving. They hadn’t seen where we’d gone. 

Thankfully Eunice and the other children were far enough away to not 
be caught in the blast. The door to the building next to the one we were 
standing upon opened, and a pair of human NPCs rushed out and pulled 
them inside as other NPCs rushed into the street to see what was happening. 

The fire moved to the entrance of the corrupt temple, and soon the 
entire building, along with the home next door, was engulfed. 

I pulled a health potion and shoved it in the mouth of the still-squealing 
Ricky Joe. The blood stopped flowing and his health bar returned to the 
green. His arm did not grow back. The boy turned to the ill-looking Mongo 
and moved to hit the dinosaur again, this time with his left arm, but I held 
him back. 

“Give it back! Give me my arm back!” 

Mongo obliged. 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[ 21 ] 


WE WAITED UNTIL SUNSET BEFORE LEAVING OUR HIDING SPOT ATOP THE 
building. After the brief, chaotic fight on the street down below, the two 
guards remained in their position facing the fire. They did not move. They 
did not look up. Multiple NPCs, including skyfowl, came to inspect the 
burning building. Nobody paid us any heed. 

Nobody, except Mordecai, who spent a solid 10 minutes straight 
Swearing at us over chat because we’d activated the guards’ aggro. 

Ricky Joe sat cross-legged on the roof, sullenly clutching onto the 
remains of his severed limb and the twice-eaten corpse of his pet 
salamander, Benjamin. He’d screamed bloody murder when he learned we 
wouldn’t be able to reattach the arm, but Donut had talked him into sitting 
down and calmly waiting for night to descend. Once the building was fully 
engulfed, it appeared whatever spells protected the immediate area also 
fled, once again allowing Donut’s charm to be effective. 

“Hey kid,” I asked as we waited. “You know that wasn’t very cool, 
right? Tying the little lizard to the end of the stick? It’s pretty fucked up.” 

“You shouldn’t say bad words to kids,” Donut said. “But yes, Ricky Joe. 
You shouldn’t do that.” 

“At least I didn’t eat him,” Ricky Joe said. “And Benjamin liked it. 
Fathom dwarves strap them to their hats when they go into mines. He was 
in training.” 

A few moments later, the two guards abruptly turned and walked away. 
I watched them clank their way through the town’s streets. They converged 
with other groups of the swordsmen, and they all entered a building on the 
same street as the magistrate’s headquarters. 


“Hey,” I asked the kid, indicating the burnt-out husk of the temple. The 
child’s own home, which was attached to the building, had also burned to 
the ground. “Did you ever see anything unusual coming in and out of there? 
Or hear anything weird?” 

“Weird?” he asked. “They were always weird. One of them would cry 
for his mama every morning. We could hear it through the walls, we did. 
There were a lot of weird smells, too. My brother, Bubba Lane, said he saw 
something fly from the roof a couple nights ago. He said it was a krasue, 
but it was probably just that skyfowl lady.” 

“What lady?” I asked. 

“I don’t know her name. They all look the same to me. But she visits a 
lot. She usually comes just before dark and then leaves right away, walking 
with a bunch of other ladies. She didn’t come today though.” 

“Wait, what are the other ladies?” 

“Women, usually elves and dwarves and humans. They show up all day 
long. I don’t recognize any of them. I think they’re trying to join the church. 
They’re usually dressed like they’re about to go to the Desperado. Bubba 
Lane says it’s because women are stupid. My mama slaps him around some 
when he says that and then pinches his ear until he apologizes. Then she 
makes us all line up and call him stupid. He doesn’t like that much.” 

“Do you know where the skyfowl takes the ladies?” Donut asked. 

“No,” he said. “We’re not allowed to go past the street. Mama says it’s 
dangerous out there.” 

I looked at Donut. So, a bunch of women from out of town were coming 
to this temple, and then they were led away by a female skyfowl. 
Interesting. We needed to get moving. 

There was no easy way off the roof. Donut’s Puddle Jumper wouldn’t 
reset for another four hours, and we needed it for the next part of the 
evening’s investigations. I sighed as I pulled out my rope, reflecting on all 
that had changed since we’d woken up this morning. It had been a crazy 
long day, and it wasn’t over yet. We wouldn’t be able to casually walk 
around town anymore. We’d be fine at night, but while the sun was up, 
we’d be attacked by the guards, which really sucked. There were other 
nearby towns, but this was the largest one in the area. And with just about 
three days left until collapse, it was getting too late to venture far from the 
only exit we’d discovered so far, which was a half-day’s walk from here, in 
the ruins of Grimaldi’s circus. 


Donut pulled Mongo into the pet carrier and waited for me to climb 
down the rope. I had to carry the protesting Ricky Joe under my arm. I 
ended up accidentally dropping him the last ten feet, but he was mostly fine. 
He belly-flopped hard onto the ground, losing his weak grip on the severed 
arm and salamander corpse. He started wailing. “Oh, you’re fine,” I called 
as I climbed the rest of the way down. “Walk it off, kid.” His health had 
barely blipped. 

The moment we hit the ground, Donut casually leaped off the building 
like it was nothing. I grasped the rope and pulled it into my inventory. 

“You need to work on your jumping, Carl,” Donut said as she released 
Mongo. “Or figure out how to fly.” 

An ear-piercing scream from within the next-door building reverberated 
through the street. 

“That’s me mom,” Ricky Joe said. “She’s in labor again. She’s going to 
be really mad if I miss it. I’m in charge of holding her left leg. Bye, 
Princess Donut! Bye Mongo!” He rushed toward the door. 

I exchanged a look with Donut and shook my head. 


We made a quick stop at the Silk Road before returning to the One-Eyed 
Narwhal. Our funds were starting to run low. Pd picked up three more 
boxes of hob-lobbers, all of them the impact-detonated version. Pustule had 
also brought a ten pack of the hobgoblin smoke curtains, which were round, 
fused bombs that would supposedly work much better than the goblin 
smoke bombs. I purchased all ten. 

Mordecai was already in the Narwhal when we arrived, which meant 
he’d walked there on his own from his guildhall. The recap show was about 
to begin, and he sat at the table chatting with a strange woman. A crawler, I 
realized, seeing the blue dot on the map. 

“Tt’s Hekla’s friend,” Donut said. “Yay! She found us!” 

Shit. Pd completely forgotten about that. As we approached, the woman 
turned to look at us and I stopped in my tracks. She was... odd looking. I 
couldn’t tell her age. The blond-haired woman’s eyes were too big, too high 
on her face. Her nose was crooked and sideways, and her chin appeared to 
be lumpy. Also, I could see that the individual hairs on her head were much 


too thick. She appeared to be wearing a poorly-sewn tracksuit and blocky 
snow boots. I examined her properties. 

Crawler #9,077,265. “Katia Grim.” 

Level 9. 

Race: Human. 

Class: Monster Truck Driver. 

I blinked a few times, trying to wrap my mind around it. She clearly 
wasn’t human. And what the hell was a Monster Truck Driver class? My 
eyes focused on that level 9. She was 10 levels below me. She had a pair of 
stars by her name. A neighborhood and borough boss. Still, level 9. That 
was going to be a problem. 

“Hi, Katia,’ Donut said, jumping on the table. “Are you Hekla’s 
friend?” 

“Hello,” she said shyly, nodding her head. “Yes. Thank you so much for 
meeting me. Hekla said you’d be here.” 

Mongo approached her hesitantly, sniffing at her. Seeing that she wasn’t 
a threat, he made a few circles and then curled up on the floor. 

“Hello,” I said. 

“Hello, Carl,” she replied. “Hekla told me everything that happened 
during your interview. It’s... crazy. She wants to talk to you, but in a 
minute. She and the daughters are fighting a boss right now. I won’t get any 
experience because I’m too far away.” 

When she talked, her mouth moved oddly, like her voice was 
overdubbed. Strange. 

I wouldn’t be able to talk to Hekla directly. I could talk to other crawlers 
over chat, like the way I talked to Brandon, but only after we both initiated 
the chat handshake, which had to be done in person. 

“Anyway,” she said when I didn’t respond, “Mordecai was giving me a 
few tips.” She smiled. “It’s much appreciated. My game guide isn’t very 
helpful.” 

“Hekla is so cool,” Donut said. “She’s like Xena Warrior Princess, but 
better.” 

“Yes, she is,” Katia said. “She’s amazing. She saved my life.” 

Mordecai: If you can train her up, she’d be a good addition to the 
team. Good enough to maybe poach her from this Hekla. But she is 
very, very far behind. Probably too far behind. 

Carl: Can we trust her? 


Mordecai: I don’t know yet. She seems genuine. She’s also a bit of a 
trainwreck. 

Carl: What the hell is she? She’s not really a human, is she? 

Mordecai: Let her explain. 

“What sort of tips was Mordecai giving you?” I asked out loud. 

She sighed heavily. “Bannon, that’s my game guide, talked me into 
picking this race and class, and I don’t know what I’m doing.” 

“What race are you? It says human, but you don’t look it.” 

“Easy,” Mordecai said. “She’s trying.” 

I finally sat down at the table. Over the bar, the recap show began. 

“What does that mean?” 

“Pm a Doppelganger,” she said. “It says human when you look at me 
because that’s what I’m trying to emulate. Before Mordecai helped me with 
my ears, it said my race was ‘What the f-word?’ so we are making 
progress.” 

“A doppelganger?” I said. I looked at Mordecai. “Is that the same thing 
as what you are? A changeling?” 

“They are similar,” he said, “But not exactly the same. A doppelganger 
is a very difficult race to master, and her guide should have talked her out of 
it. As a changeling, I can switch to any race that I have physically touched, 
with a few caveats. At least that’s how it works for crawlers. As you know, 
I lost my ability to choose my shape when I became a guide. Anyway, a 
doppelganger is different. She is like clay. She once had a regular form, and 
she is wearing gear. All of that, her body and gear, adds to a certain amount 
of mass. With that mass, she can shape her body into anything she wants of 
equal mass.” He looked over at her sadly. “She doesn’t gain the non- 
physical abilities of the shape she is forming, unlike a changeling. She just 
looks like it. The problem for Miss Katia here is that she can’t just say, 
‘make me into a human.’ She has to shape it herself.” 

“Tt hurts, too,” she added. 

“And it hurts,” Mordecai agreed. “She has to mentally chisel her 
appearance herself. And since she isn’t yet a master sculptor...” He let it 
hang, indicating her face. “But I have some experience in this subject, and I 
am helping her obtain a more natural appearance.” 

“It’s really tricky,” she said. “I only return to my regular appearance 
when I am asleep or in the bathroom. And it doesn’t let me shape myself 


when I’m in the bathroom. I’ve been using the reflection off a health potion 
as a mirror.” She waved her hand over her face. “With obvious results.” 

“Wait, this will help,” I said, rummaging through my inventory. I found 
what I was looking for and placed it on the table. It was a hand-sized chunk 
of broken mirror. I’d looted it on the first floor from the remains of the gym 
after our fight with the Juicer. I had enough broken glass in there to form a 
wall of mirrors. 

“Oh wow, thank you,” she said, picking it up. She had a timid way of 
moving. She reminded me of a rabbit. Skittish and furtive, like she would 
bolt if I raised my voice. How is this woman still here? How is she alive? 

She tentatively looked into the mirror. “One of those stores had a 
handheld mirror, but I couldn’t afford... Oh my gosh, I look like a Juan Gris 
painting.” 

I didn’t know who Juan Gris was, but I imagined he was someone who 
sucked at painting faces. As I watched, her face twisted and heaved like 
something was underneath it, moving things about. Her eyes changed shape 
and moved into a more correct position. It was like watching someone 
model clay with invisible hands. 

“I gotta do clothes, too,” she said. “I’m wearing a magical leather jerkin 
right now, but once it’s equipped, it disappears and adds to my mass. The 
only thing that doesn’t disappear is my weapon.” 

“You'll get better and faster at altering your appearance as you practice. 
It’s a skill, like any other,” Mordecai said patiently. 

“What’s with that Monster Truck Driver class?” I asked. 

Mordecai answered for her. “I can’t look these up anymore, so I’m not 
certain on the exact details, but from what I can gather, it’s an earth version 
of the Staunch Barrier class mixed with a Jouster class. It’s a relatively 
common combined class called a Juggernaut. In other words, she’s a 
straight-up tank that gets an increasingly-massive Constitution bonus the 
faster she is moving. And based on her current Constitution while she is 
standing still, she is quite the powerhouse.” 

“Wow,” I said. 

On the screen, the crocodilian guy with the shotgun had teamed up with 
a human who looked familiar, but I couldn’t remember where I’d seen him 
before. They jumped off a burning building together while being chased by 
three-legged insect things. 

Carl: What’s the catch? 


Mordecai: Massive constitution and good dexterity. She sucks at 
everything else, especially Strength, which seems counterintuitive. She 
is not a fighter. And her level is low, so despite her ability to absorb a 
lot of physical and magical damage, she’s still far behind the curve. I 
once fought an indestructible wombat thing on the eighth floor. The 
monsters could absorb a direct hit to the face with a Celestial 
Warhammer, but they were small and weak. So instead we just picked 
them up and dunked them headfirst into buckets of water. They 
quickly drowned. 

Carl: Jesus, Mordecai. 

Mordecai: My point is that the strongest, most indestructible wall in 
the world isn’t that tough if you can pick it up and toss it aside. It’s just 
like with your shelf plan later tonight. 

Katia looked up. “Okay, Hekla is done with her fight. She says, ‘Hi Carl 
and Donut. I am glad you haven’t been assassinated. Please help Katia.’ 
Thats me. ‘I think itll be best if you let her join your party to get 
experience. The farther away they are, the less shared experience they get. 
Please keep her out of too much danger. I really appreciate your help, and I 
promise to make it up to you.’” 

Carl: We letting her join our party? Won’t that dilute our 
experience pool too much? 

Donut: WE HAVE TO WE PROMISED HEKLA. 

Carl: No, YOU promised Hekla. 

Mordecai: As long as you button up this quest tonight, you can 
spend the last two days grinding, and you’ll be on track, even with her 
tagging along. Before you got here, I talked Fitz into letting me look at 
his herb stash, and I managed to steal last night’s newsletter. There’s 
something in there we need to talk about. But get her in the party first. 

“Tell Hekla we said that we’ll take it from here and to stay safe,” I said. 

We spent the next few minutes getting her to join our party. I took a 
look at her stats. 

Strength: 11 

Intelligence: 8 

Constitution: 51 

Dexterity: 30 

Charisma: 8 

“How did you manage to get your Constitution so high?” I asked. 


“I have a ring that adds 15 to Constitution. I got it in a loot box when 
we first started. Then I got a couple other constitution buffs, and then when 
I picked that class it added even more.” 

“What else can you do?” I asked, examining her properties. 

“I have an ability called Second Fuel Tank, which absorbs damage and 
reflects some of it back. It triggers randomly, but it’s limited to only one 
time a fight. There’s my Rush ability, which uses my body as a battering 
ram. I can only do that once a 30-hour day. I also have something called 
Pathfinder which helps me find stairwells really easily.” 

I exchanged a look with Mordecai. 

“I don’t have any useful spells. Oh, and I’m immune to wind spell 
damage. Also, I’m good at fixing engines.” 

“Were you a mechanic?” 

“No. [ve never actually fixed an engine before. But I got my Earth 
Hobby Potion. I am a ‘gear head.’ I was an art teacher before all this 
happened.” 

“An art teacher?” I asked, looking dubiously at her poorly-sculpted 
face. 

She smiled sheepishly. At least I think that’s what she was going for. 
Instead, the smile looked a bit ghoulish. “What is the saying? Those who 
can’t do, teach?” 

“Okay, listen up,” Mordecai said. “Now that you’re in the party, we 
need to have a discussion about experience and something I just learned.” 

“Hush, hush!” Donut said, pointing on the screen. “Look! It’s me!” 

“Oh fuck,” I said, looking at the headline. 

It was a graphic of Donut, her eyes slit. It was an image from last night 
when she’d been drinking at the bar. A lightning bolt appeared, and on the 
other side of the screen an image of two rottweilers slammed into place. It 
was purposely reminiscent of the boss battle graphic. 

Princess Donut Versus Cici and Gustavo 3! 

“Tt’s a feud of epic proportions! Princess Donut has thrown the gauntlet 
down, directly challenging Cici and Gustavo 3, the two beloved pets of 
current front-runner, Lucia Mar!” The orange-hued lizard announcer 
breathlessly intoned. 

“I have done no such thing!” Donut said, incredulous. “They’re lying!” 
She turned to me. “Carl, I do not like this. Since when has the news been 
allowed to lie?” 


Donut’s image appeared on the screen, her leaning over her cocktail. 
“Those dogs sound just awful. Bitch-ass rottweilers. Almost as bad as 
cocker spaniels. Think they’re so smart.” 

“Lucia Mar appeared earlier today on Knuckle Cracking, and this is 
what she had to say.” 

The screen flickered, changing to a shot of Lucia Mar. She sat on the 
couch next to a wolf-headed host. Lucia was in the strength-based, skull- 
faced cycle of her Lajabless form. She and the wolfman laughed cruelly as 
Gustavo and Cici ripped apart some small, fuzzy animal while the audience 
howled encouragement. 

“What the hell is this bullshit?” I asked. 

“Tt’s an arena fight show,” Mordecai said. “I already told Zev to never 
let you on one. The fights aren’t real. It’s complicated.” 

The scene cut to Lucia Mar’s face, zoomed in super close. Her skull eye 
sockets teemed with bugs. 

“What do you say to the challenge? Will you come back to this show? 
We could make it a main event. Donut versus one or both of your boys?” 
the wolfman asked off screen. 

“No,” Lucia Marr said. “This show is a waste of time. Every moment 
spent not gaining experience is a waste of time.” Her voice came out raspy 
with her thick, Spanish accent. “I will find this Donut in the dungeon, 
where her death will be forever. Cici and Gus will tear this puta apart. And 
then I will rip Carl to pieces and take all of his shiny toys.” 

“She seems nice,” I said. 

I had to remind myself that this was a little kid. What kind of fucked-up 
childhood did she have? 

“This is an outrage!” Donut said. “That wasn’t a challenge! Carl, we 
need to tell them that it was a mistake. I don’t want to fight those two stupid 
dogs. We’d kill them easy, sure, but I don’t want those ugly skulls after my 
name.” 

“Goddamnit,” Mordecai said, looking up at the screen. “Goddamnit to 
hell.” 

“They’re going to bring us together somehow, aren’t they?” I asked. 

“Of course they are,” he said. “But not yet. They’ll want some buildup 
first.” 

“Will it happen on this floor?” 


“No way. It won’t be until after the third round of sponsorships, so on or 
after the sixth.” 

“Does that mean they’ Il go easy on us until then?” 

“Maybe,” Mordecai said. “But probably not.” 

“Whatever happened to them trying to kill us off early?” 

“They’re still trying to end as early as possible. But they need money, so 
you high performers are going to be treated differently. All of this ties in 
with what I need to talk to you guys about. Borant is warning the 
shopkeepers and pub owners to be extra careful not to anger crawlers. It 
doesn’t explicitly say this in the newsletter, but I can read between the lines. 
Some of you guys are getting much stronger than you should. That kid 
trashing the Desperado Club two nights ago is proof of that. Most loot 
boxes are controlled by the system AI, and it appears the system is 
attempting to compensate for the shorter time limits. Borant controls the 
mobs and the experience earned, for the most part, but the System AT is still 
the ultimate arbiter and is using that strength to even out the odds.” 

“Ts that why you didn’t have a fit when we decided to take on this 
quest?” 

He shrugged. “You were already snagged in that quest’s net. It happens. 
I could tell this was a good one from the get-go. Usually you have to just 
bring something from point A to point B, and it’s done. Or you just have to 
kill someone. These more elaborate quests are also a symptom of the 
shorter floors.” He paused as the announcement came on. It was nothing 
new. “Now, you two get a couple hours of sleep. Once Donut’s Puddle 
Jumper resets, you’ll go back out there. And since you’ve pissed off the 
guards, we need to make sure you finish this before the sun is up. In the 
meantime, I’m going to help Katia train her face. She’s not going out with 
you tonight. But when you’re done with the quest, you’ll spend the rest of 
the time on the floor grinding together.” 

Mordecai: Try to keep her alive. But if she does die, make sure you 
get those rings off her finger. 

Carl: You are stone cold, Mordecai. 


This late in the evening, the entire town was asleep. The pubs were all 
closed. Nobody walked the main streets. The only light was from the sign 
of the Desperado Club a few streets over, towering over the city. An eerie 
silence punctuated the night, broken occasionally by horrific, unearthly 
screams that seemed to come from everywhere. 

In order to break into the magistrate’s home, we first needed to get into 
an alleyway, scale the exterior of a small building we’d scoped out earlier, 
and then use the Puddle Jumper spell to hop over to the roof of the 
magistrate’s building. 

The alley contained a group of level-14 monsters called Shadow Leaks. 
They were smoke-like, ghost-class mobs that swarmed at us as we 
approached the side of the building. They utilized a stinging cold attack, 
which I was resistant to thanks to my Nightgaunt Cloak. Thankfully my 
magical gauntlet was able to damage them just as easily as if they were 
made of flesh, and Mongo’s magical teeth caps could also hurt them. The 
ghosts gave off an unusually high amount of experience and were easy to 
kill. Mongo hit level 13 and got noticeably larger, rising to the height of my 
chest. He’d gone from dog-sized to pony-sized just like that. 

Donut leaped from my shoulders to the back of Mongo to see if she 
could ride him. But the dinosaur got so excited that he started jumping up 
and down, tossing Donut away. She poofed all her hair out in anger and 
returned to my shoulder. “We’ll work on that later,” she mumbled. 

This residential building was ringed by a series of conveniently-placed 
trellises on the exterior that made for easy scaling. Mongo went into the 
carrier as Donut leaped from window to window, quickly reaching the 
third-floor roof. I followed, scaling the trellis, which creaked ominously. 
But I quickly made it to the angled, shingle-covered roof, my heart 
thrashing. 

The long magistrate building spread before us. Earlier, we’d come in 
from another side, using a different building’s roof to enter through the 
main entrance and into the mall below. This building we stood upon now 
was a full story higher than the last one, and we were going to jump straight 
to the magistrate building’s roof. 

That was assuming if anything was left after I blew the three sticks of 
dynamite. I had hidden them inside the shelves that held up Miss Quill’s 
beanie babies. When I’d reattached the shelves to the wall, I’d found that 
they were hollow inside. I’d placed three sticks and a glob of Hobgoblin 


Pus, the remote detonator, in the second shelf. We wouldn’t be able to blow 
through the magical door that protected the next room over, but just by 
knocking on the wall, I could tell we could easily breach directly through 
the wood. 

I spent a moment examining our surroundings, searching the air for 
flying mobs. I didn’t see anything. Just one building over from this one, 
directly across the opposite street was the large, warehouse-like building 
that held all of the inactive swordsmen guards. I could feel it there, an 
ominous presence, sandwiching us between the equally-imposing 
magistrate’s building. I hoped the guards remained within like they were 
supposed to. Mordecai insisted they’d remain inactive all night, but I was 
worried. We were about to cause a very large, very loud ruckus. 

We’d originally had a different plan, but after my test earlier with the 
hobgoblin dynamite, we’d had to rethink how we were going to proceed. 

“Here we go,” I said to Donut. “Get ready.” 

“Wait, I have to remember my lines,” said Donut. She shook her paw 
and cleared her throat. 

I sighed and pulled the Mysterious Letter from my inventory. 

It was Mordecai who’d figured out what the Mysterious Letter really 
was. We’d found it within GumGum’s inventory after she’d been killed. We 
figured it was something she’d pulled off the dead body of a prostitute. It 
turns out it was likely planted there on purpose in the hopes it would be 
picked up by whomever was in charge of investigating the deaths. 

Earlier this morning, as we’d stood outside of the Narwhal staring at the 
dead corpse with the words, “No you won’t” carved into her body, which 
had been in response to me saying we’d hunt down and kill whoever was 
responsible, I had been horrified. 

“Whoever this is, is listening to us talk. He can hear and see us,” I’d 
said to Mordecai. 

“That’s unlikely. You were in a safe room.” 

“Yet, here we are,” I said. “He’d done it fast, too. She’d dropped just a 
few moments after I’d spoken.” 

“Tell me exactly what you were doing at the time when they dropped 
this girl on the building.” 

It was only then I realized I’d been clutching onto the mysterious letter 
as I’d told Donut that we’d get revenge for GumGum. 


“I should have realized,” Mordecai said after thinking on it for a 
moment. “Don’t take it out. It won’t work while it’s in your inventory. It’s a 
necroscript scroll all right, but it’s also covered in blood. I thought that was 
from the dead body it was found on. But I think it’s actually the blood of the 
caster. The scroll has already been used. Scrolls usually disappear once 
used, but not always.” 

“Well, what is it?” I asked. 

“Suppurating Eye,” he said. “A common lich spell. It’s usually not in 
scroll form, but it’s not unheard of. The caster reads the spell then leaks a 
bodily fluid onto a surface. The caster can then see and hear anything 
happening near the spilled fluid. It’s like placing a spy camera. He spilled it 
directly on the scroll, which he knew would be picked up. As long as it’s 
out of your inventory, he’ll know where you are and can hear you talk. You 
probably won’t be able to sell it to anybody, so you should get rid of it.” 

“Or we can use it!” Donut said. “We can talk to him and tell him what a 
jerk he is, get him mad enough to come to us.” 

“That’s actually a great idea,” I said. 

“Of course it’s a great idea, Carl. I always come up with great ideas.” 

I now gingerly placed the scroll on the roof tiles. 

“I still don’t know what this is,” I whispered. “When we’re done here, 
we need to sell it.” 

“Do you think there’ll be more scrolls in there?” Donut asked. She was 
overacting, but it was too late now. “It looks valuable. We should find one 
without blood on it.” 

“After we finish looting that filing cabinet in the reception area, we can 
look through the office for more scrolls.” 

I added, “We should probably steal all of those stuffed animals on Miss 
Quill’s desk, too. Especially those ones on the top shelf in the little cases. I 
bet those are worth something to somebody. And if they’re not, we can 
always use them to light campfires.” 

“Good idea. Plus, Mongo needs a chew toy.” 

“Okay, we’re going to wait another minute to make sure nothing is 
flying around above us, then we’ll zap over to the roof, hammer our way 
through the ceiling, and drop into that office. The key to that door has to be 
in there somewhere.” 

“It’s a fool-proof plan,” Donut said. 

I put the letter back into my inventory. 


“There!” Donut said, pointing into the sky. A group of four krasue emerged, 
coming from undemeath the building. It appeared they’d been on the first, 
unoccupied floor, waiting for us. They emerged now, heading toward our 
position on the roof. 

“Go,” I whispered. 

Donut zapped Mongo back onto the roof. Before the dinosaur could 
screech, she hissed, “Quiet!” 

The dinosaur grunted angrily, then realized he was on an angled roof 
and started scrambling. Donut quickly cast Clockwork Triplicate on the 
dinosaur and then pulled the original Mongo back into his carrier. We’d 
need him again in a minute, but not right now. 

The two clockwork Mongos both squeaked with disappointment as 
Mongo disappeared. I pulled the lit Hobgoblin smoke curtain into my 
xistera and tossed it onto the opposite roof. I then lit a second one and 
wedged it into a roof tile at our feet. 

Donut gave a quick set of instructions to the two dinosaurs, and they 
both howled as the heavy smoke started to billow into the night air. I 
quickly pulled the mysterious letter out. 

“We’re jumping onto the roof now,” I said. I crumpled up the letter and 
tossed it up in the air. One of the Mongos grabbed it and swallowed it 
whole. They then turned and leaped from the roof to the top of the 
magistrate building, soaring up through the air and landing easily. One of 
them howled, the sound carrying heavily into the night. 

“Holy shit,” I whispered. They’d leaped across the alley and up an 
entire full story. “You were right. I didn’t think they’d be able to jump that 
far.” 

“Mongo has the same pounce ability as I do,” Donut said. “And he’s a 
lot bigger.” 

“Maybe I should ride him instead of letting you have all the fun,” I said 
as the smoke completely filled the night air. Pustule had been correct. These 
things were much better than the traditional goblin smoke bombs. It was 
like a heavy fog had filled the entire area. The two pets disappeared from 
view. 

The swarm of red dots indicating the krasue turned back toward the roof 
of the building. The dinos had jumped before the fog had completely filled 


the area, and the floating women heads had seen the motion. I hadn’t been 
certain the fog would work on ghosts. Mordecai said it wouldn’t on most 
kinds of non-corporeal ghost entities, but it would on these guys because 
they had a physical presence. I still didn’t know how he kept all these rules 
in his head. 

My attention moved to the map. “Okay, the clockwork Mongos are on 
the roof right over the Magistrate’s office.” If the guy was listening in, 
hopefully he’d been fooled into thinking we were now on the roof, and his 
crew had moved to the office to intercept. “Get down.” We moved to the 
back of the roof, crouching down. We should be plenty far away at this 
distance, but every time I said that, I was proven wrong. 

“I feel bad about ruining Miss Quill’s collection,” Donut said. “She 
really loves those things.” 

“Something tells me she’s not going to care anymore.” 

I pulled the hobgoblin pus out and jammed on the detonator. A 
clockwork Mongo howl filled the air in the moment before night turned to 
day. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 22 ] 


“Nice,” I SAID, EXAMINING THE GAPING HOLE IN THE BUILDING. 

Below, the entire town had been jarred awake by the explosion. Lights 
turned on throughout the village. Cries and shouts rose. The dark shadows 
of skyfowl burst into the air all around us, but most stayed back from the 
destruction. The magistrate’s quarters burned. We’d blown up half of the 
building. But not all of it. 

Admin Notice. A new tab is available in your interface. 

Admin Notice. Your title has changed. This change will revert upon 
collapse of this floor. 

A wall of notifications scrolled by, surprising me. I jumped up two 
levels to 21. Donut also jumped two levels to 19. 

“Well that was easy,” Donut said as she cast her Torch spell, filling the 
rooftop with brilliant light. The smoke bomb sputtered to a stop, and the 
light reflected off the remnants, pulsing. It reminded me of the dance floor 
of the Desperado Club. 

I had been expecting the krasue to swarm at us, which is why we’d 
waited until now for Donut to cast her light spell. They should’ve been 
immune to the explosion, but I didn’t see them anywhere. We’d probably 
blown them halfway across town. I kept a wary eye out for red dots. 

“Oh shit,” I said, examining the notifications. We had not received the 
one I’d hoped for, but I still had several interesting ones. 


New achievement! Assassin! 


You have killed a ranking NPC town official. *Sniff* It seems like 
just yesterday you were nothing but a scared, level-1 crawler with 
beautiful feet, pissing yourself as you faced down a rat. Now look at 
you. You’ve moved all the way up to political assassinations. What’s 
next? Killing a god? 

Reward: You’ve received a Bronze Assassin’s Box! 


New achievement! Ultimate Extreme Power! 

Easy there, Charlemagne. This is only a medium settlement. It’s not 
like you’ve conquered most of Europe. But you have killed this town’s 
acting Magistrate. 

You know what that means? Welcome to the wonderful world of 
public administration. 

Reward: You’ve received a Platinum Tyrant’s Box! You have also 
gained control of the Medium Skyfowl Settlement. Good luck, 
Magistrate. 


New achievement! CockBlock! 

You have assassinated an NPC whose existence was required to 
complete another crawler’s quest. (NPC Killed: Miss Quill — Skyfowl. 
Level 30.) Who was that other crawler? What was the quest? Who 
fucking cares? You get the reward they were promised! 

Warning: You may only receive this award once. The next time you 
do it, we tell them who you are. And then they get a new quest to kill 
you. Nobody likes cockblocks. 

Reward: You’ve received a Silver Quest Box! 


So it appeared we had killed both Miss Quill and Magistrate Featherfall in 
the blast. 

“Are we jumping over there or what?” Donut said. “We’re supposed to 
be jumping!” 

“Hang on,” I said. Every instinct I had told me to wait. “Something’s 
not right. Let me think for a second.” 


“Hey,” Donut said a moment later. “Why did you get the fancy name 
change and I didn’t? This is an outrage!” 

I looked at the menu. My title had changed from Royal Bodyguard to 
Magistrate Carl of Medium Skyfowl Settlement. 

I didn’t laugh. Mordecai had already warned me that one of us would 
likely win the town if we killed the magistrate. But he’d also said when you 
killed the quest’s head boss dude, you either auto won the quest or it failed, 
depending on the situation. Given the mysterious circumstances of this 
quest, he’d given us a 50/50 chance of winning that quest box. And that was 
okay with me as long as the quest went away. Either way, we’d get a ton of 
experience since the guy was also the head of the town. But nothing had 
happened with the quest. It still sat there in my menu. Did we kill an 
innocent NPC? We hadn’t even met the magistrate, and we’d just blown his 
house to bits. 

“Listen, we have a problem. I think we screwed up. Magistrate 
Featherfall is dead, but the quest is still there. That means he wasn’t the 
head bad guy. And it looks like Miss Quill wasn’t the bad guy, either, like I 
was suspecting. And to top it off, we fucked over some other crawler’s 
quest.” 

The plan had been simple. Using the Mysterious Letter as bait, we were 
going to make Featherfall think we were about to breach through the 
ceiling, drawing him to the area to face us. After Ricky Joe had claimed that 
a female skyfowl was visiting the city elves, I thought perhaps Miss Quill 
was really the bad guy. That was just the sort of thing the AI would pull, 
which was why I’d mentioned something about burning the stuffed animals. 
Either way, whomever was listening in would hopefully be there. Mordecai 
said a lich would get blown to bits just as easily as a human. The only 
monster we’d have to worry about post-detonation would be the krasue, 
which wouldn’t be hurt by the explosion. 

After the blast, if there was anything left, we’d storm the Magistrate’s 
office and mop up the remaining bad guys and hopefully figure out what the 
hell was going on over there. 

“If Miss Quill was there to get blown up, then she had to be in on it. 
Why else would she be there this late?” Donut asked. 

“Maybe,” I said. “She said he only came out at night now. Maybe she 
altered her schedule to match. Or maybe she lived there.” 


“Or maybe she was a blood-sucking pawn of the lich. We don’t know, 
Carl. Let’s go look. Quit being a wuss.” 

“Okay,” I said after a moment. “But let’s be cautious. I have a bad 
feeling about this one. Turn off your Torch for now, but be ready to snap it 
back on.” 

“Wait, wait, look,” Donut said. “Look at our notifications again. There’s 
a bronze boss box in there. I told you one of them was a bad guy.” 

I looked, and she was correct. I hadn’t noticed it buried there with the 
others. So, either Featherfall or Quill had been a neighborhood boss. That 
made me feel a little better. But which one was it? It didn’t say. 

The dynamite had blown a massive hole in the roof, peeling it up like it 
had been drilled through from below. Thankfully the building wasn’t fully 
engulfed in flames. Not yet. Smoke continued to rise from the hole, but it 
was minimal for now. The boom jug from earlier this afternoon had 
managed to burn a building to the ground in a matter of minutes. The effect 
of this blast appeared to be much more powerful, but also much less 
incendiary. If I was going to be blowing shit up more often, I needed to 
know what to expect. This particular blast, while huge, was not what I’d 
anticipated. The physics surrounding this stuff was still beyond me, and that 
was dangerous. I needed to learn, and fast. 

Donut used Puddle Jumper to get us over to the roof across the way. We 
went from the angled tiles to the flat beams, but the ground below us 
suddenly felt unsteady, ready to break. 

“You, there!” a voice called. I looked up. A pair of skyfowl NPCs had 
grown brave enough to fly closer to the explosion. They hovered over us 
now. “What are you doing?” 

“I’m the new town magistrate,” I called. “I’m on magistrate business.” 

The two eagles looked at each other. I wasn’t certain how this sort of 
thing worked, if they’d recognize my authority or not. If this were the real 
world they’d say... 

“Fuck off, you crazy assholes,” the skyfowl called down to me. “Go 
back to the Desperado or wherever you came from. You shouldn’t be up 
here. There’s been an explosion, and that roof you’re on is going to cave in. 
We ain’t saving your stupid wingless asses if you fall through.” 

“Well, fuck you very much,” I called back to them. 

The other skyfowl turned to his companion. “I don’t feel so well. There 
might be something in the air. Let us flee from here, my brother.” 


The two circled a few times and then flew off. 

I kept an eye out for mobs as we cautiously approached the hole. We 
looked down into what had once been the magistrate’s quarters. The 
epicenter of the explosion was still another 50 feet ahead. Through the hole 
in the roof, I could see all the way to the ground far below. Half of the 
magistrate’s home and front office were just gone, along with the entire 
south end of the building. The floor of the mall level was also a massive 
hole. And below that was a pile of smoking debris. However, deeper into 
both the mall and the living quarters above, I could see that the floor was 
mostly intact. 

“No wonder there’s not that much fire,” I said. “It’s like we punched a 
hole right through the structure, both up and down. Weird.” 

Donut pointed to the side of the building. Across the street, another 
structure had half caved-in. Thankfully it was a business and not a 
residence. I’m glad we’d chosen a different building to stand upon. “Your 
explosion went up, down, and to the side. But it didn’t blow this way. I 
wonder if that magic door protected it.” 

“Maybe,” I said. “But either way, that reception office is just gone. If 
that’s where Miss Quill and Featherfall were standing at the time, they 
wouldn’t have had a chance.” 

“Those poor stuffed animals,” Donut said. “Now let’s go down there.” 

Donut started to wiggle her butt, and then she jumped deftly down into 
the magistrate’s quarters as I tied my rope to a chimney. This was starting to 
get cumbersome. Donut was right. I needed a better way to go up and down. 
I descended. I swung my way into the chambers. I left the rope there, 
hanging all the way past the mall level. The full length of the rope ended 
about 15 feet off the ground. 

A few fires crackled here and there. I gave them a wide berth as we 
explored deeper into the large building. Donut released Mongo, who 
immediately moved to a small, empty cage against one wall and started 
sniffing at it. 

The magistrate’s office had been just on the other side of the reception 
area, which meant it was now gone. There was no sign of the magical door. 
It was probably buried in the debris along with the corpses and all of Miss 
Quill’s beanie babies. And past the office was the living quarters, which 
extended the entire length of the mall below it. There wasn’t much here. A 


few tables and T-shaped roosts. There was a chest against a wall, but it was 
open and the contents empty. 

Donut inspected a small cage that interested Mongo. It appeared as if it 
once held regular-sized mice or rats. The door was open. She said it smelled 
moldy, like it hadn’t been used it a while. All I could smell was smoke. She 
pulled the cage into her inventory and came to examine the chest, which I 
poked at with my foot. 

“Hey Donut, look. The clasp is broken. That didn’t happen with the 
explosion.” 

“So, it was sitting here already looted before we blew it up?” 

“That’s what it looks like.” 

“Maybe another crawler broke into here before us,” she said. 

“Maybe,” I said. “We’re the ones who killed Featherfall, though. Keep 
one eye on the map.” 

I looked around. The entire apartment seemed oddly empty. There were 
shelves, but nothing was upon them. Nothing hung on the walls. That empty 
cage had been a food box, but it hadn’t been used in a while. There was a 
heavy door against the far wall, leading deeper into the house. I leaned into 
it, opening it slowly. 

The moment I pushed against the door, I saw the X appear on the map. I 
pushed the door all the way. The moment I did, several dozen additional red 
dots appeared, along with an equal number of Xs. I froze as I formed a fist, 
ready to defend myself. Nothing happened. Nobody moved. 

Holy crap. 

“Mongo, shush,” I hissed as the feathered dinosaur forced his way into 
the room. He opened his mouth to howl, and I pressed my left hand down 
on his beak. “Shush,” I repeated. 

Donut leaped to my shoulder, putting herself in the firing position. Still, 
nothing in the room stirred. Donut gasped, her entire body going rigid. 

“Carl,” Donut whispered, her voice terrified. “You were right, Carl. This 
was a bad idea. I don’t like this. Please, let’s go. Let’s go now.” 

I swallowed, examining the horrific sight before me. 

We'd stepped into a serial killer’s wet dream. 

The entire room was filled with naked female corpses, hanging upside 
down from the ceiling as if we’d just walked into a meat locker. There were 
human and elves and dwarves, along with a scattering of others, such as 
orcs and a single ogre. The ones that appeared as Xs on my map were all 


missing their heads. The others, at least thirty of them, still had all their 
parts, but the heads were detached, hanging a good six inches below the 
neck, with only the white of bone and straw-like arteries keeping them 
attached. It appeared as if someone had grabbed their heads, given it good 
yank, and then left them there, bobble-heading. Wisps of purple energy 
swirled around the red-dotted ones, like they were being recharged. 

They all appeared to be asleep. Their eyes remained closed. 

The horrors didn’t stop there. At the center of the room, hanging upside- 
down in a massive dreamcatcher made of bone, was the naked, emaciated 
corpse of Magistrate Featherfall. His featherless wings were spread all the 
way out, with nothing but goosebumped, gray skin left, like a pair of 
uncooked chicken wings with grasping fingers at the first knuckle. His 
milky white, dead eyes stared out at us under a cracked beak. A clear fluid 
dripped from both his mouth and eyes. At the top of the hoop-shaped 
construction, his taloned claws were spread out and splayed, facing the 
ceiling. The whole sight was reminiscent of a fucked up, inverted parody of 
DaVinci’s Vitruvian Man. His body was lashed to the bone structure with 
old, frayed rope. It appeared as if he’d been there for some time. His body 
was in the process of being mummified. The circle twisted in the air, 
rocking back and forth, creaking. 

Lootable Corpse. Former Magistrate Featherfall. Dark Cleric. 
Level 32. 

“How did we get credit for killing that guy when he was like this?” 
Donut whispered. “He looks like he’s been dead a long time.” 

“I don’t know.” 

This was a nest of krasue. The original description said to truly kill 
them, one had to find their bodies and destroy them. The ones without 
heads were, I assumed, out and about in the town. But if that was the case, 
then why did they appear as corpses on the map? The descriptions just said 
they were regular NPC corpses. Were the bodies technically dead until the 
krasue returned? I supposed it didn’t matter as long as we killed the bodies. 
But could we? I knew we couldn’t kill the ghosts without using magic. But 
what about their bodies? 

The entire ground was sticky with gore and lumps of fallen, forgotten 
body parts. The smell was almost unbearable. 

If we wanted to approach Featherfall, we’d have to brush by several of 
the hanging women. The closest one, a blue-skinned elf, was a mere five 


feet away. She was young and thin, hanging from the ceiling with her 
ankles in a noose. Her long, dark hair cascaded below her, not quite long 
enough to reach the ground. I resisted the urge to punt her head. 

“We need to get closer to loot his body,” I said. 

“Yeah, no, I’m not taking another step in there. Those things are going 
to wake up.” 

“If that explosion didn’t wake them, then maybe they’ll stay 
unconscious.” 

“Of course, they’re going to wake up, Carl. Have you ever watched a 
horror movie?” 

She was right. And with the blood splattered all over the room, I 
strongly suspected whomever the head bad guy was, he probably had that 
Suppurating Eye spell going. We couldn’t stay here long. I sent a quick 
query to Mordecai, who said the headless ones were maybe fair game to 
physical attacks, but the ones with their heads and the purple swirls were 
likely protected. But he wasn’t certain. 

“Okay,” I whispered. “Let’s kill this one here and see what happens. If it 
works, we’ll carve a path. We’ll loot and run.” 

“Okay, let’s step back. Pll hit her with a missile,” Donut said. “If they 
all wake up, Pll cast my Torch. Maybe it’ll scare them away again.” 

“Hey,” she said a moment later. “Not fair. It says the area has been 
muted. I can’t cast spells.” 

I sent another note to Mordecai. 

Mordecai: Spells in your menu and scrolls won’t cast if you’re in a 
muted zone. Everything else, including magical items, potions, and 
spells you’ve already cast will still work. 

“Okay, Mongo,” I said. “You’re up.” He had those magical teeth caps, 
and those should do damage. “Go bite that elf’s head off. But you gotta be 
quick.” 

Mongo croaked and looked at Donut for confirmation. 

“Sic ‘em,” she said. 

The dinosaur rushed forward, weaving at his target, snake-like. At the 
last moment, he turned his head to the side, like he was eating a taco. He 
chomped down on the dark elf’s head. 

Crunch. 

The barely-detached head caved in under Mongo’s alarmingly powerful 
bite. The head slopped to the ground, followed by a rush of organs and 


blood, as if her neck was a drain that had just been unclogged. The purple 
swirls of magic blinked off. 

Mongo raised his head into the air and howled, blood cascading off his 
face. 

The purple aura around the others blinked out. The hair on the back of 
my neck stood on end. Uh-oh. 

Mongo, oblivious, moved deeper into the room, biting a second, then a 
third. He ignored the ones that were already headless. The dinosaur jump 
attacked at a fourth, but he moved through the body as if it wasn’t there. He 
howled in rage and turned to bite, this time latching on the woman’s legs, 
ripping her from the ceiling. She crumpled to the ground. 

“Get back here!” I said. 

“Mongo, return!” Donut cried. 

All around the room, the krasue began waking up. They wailed, loud 
and high-pitched. The heads all started wiggling at once, working to fully 
detach themselves from the rest of their bodies. 

“Donut, go long,” I yelled. This was one of our oldest plays, but it 
didn’t exactly fit the situation. Hopefully she would understand the idea. 

“Carl, that’s not going to... Oh, I get it! With what though?” 

“With light!” 

She leaped from my shoulder and ran away, scrambling out into the 
other room and presumably to the roof. Once she was out of range of the 
muting, she’d cast her Torch spell and then return. 

I rolled a smoke curtain into the chaos as I formed a fist, rushing toward 
Mongo, who was gnawing down on yet another creature. My feet splashed 
in the gore. I punched at a krasue as I passed, my magical gauntlet 
connecting with a wet splat. 

I pulled a regular torch and lit it, tossing it to the ground. The women 
squealed in rage, dozens of them peeling themselves free. One by one, they 
righted themselves, floating into the air, trailing organs as their now-empty 
bodies waved back and forth, turning into Xs on my map. They backed 
away from the sputtering torch, which invaded the smoke-filled room with 
a pulsing, red glow. They didn’t flee like last time. The light wasn’t as 
powerful, and they were also blinded by the smoke. They started to swirl 
through the room like flocking birds, bumping into one another and the 
hanging bodies and the bone hoop in the center, which started to spin. A 


krasue whipped past me, smacking me in the face with a still-beating heart. 
I swung but missed. 

“Back out the door,” I said to Mongo, pointing behind me. The pet 
looked up and screeched. He snapped at a krasue, connecting with a 
hanging lung, ripping it free. The creature squealed and plummeted to the 
ground, bouncing and rolling with arteries whipping about like a jellyfish. 

We pushed through a hanging curtain of headless corpses as I yanked 
the Fireball or Custard lotto ticket from my inventory. We ran into the living 
room, which was also now filled with smoke. We stopped at the gaping 
hole, and I turned back. 

This apartment was big, but I didn’t know how much more punishment 
it could take before the whole building collapsed. I wasn’t sure how 
powerful a level-15 fireball was. The last time I’d tried this, the 50/50 
chance ticket cast custard. 

Where the hell was Donut? I glanced at the map, and it appeared she 
was just above us, on the roof. There were more red dots now, circling the 
cat, keeping their distance. 

“Fire in the hole!” I cried as I scratched the ticket. I was fully expecting 
it to cast custard again. 

Fireball. Spicy! 

The egg-shaped ball of fire leaped out of my hand and rocketed toward 
the doorway to the bedroom. The flaming projectile was the size of an 
opened umbrella. It didn’t move as quickly as one of Donut’s Magic 
Missiles, but that didn’t matter. It rolled directly through the open door, 
shattering the jamb on either side, cleaving through the smoke and 
detonating as it hit the upside-down corpse of Featherfall. 

The entire building rocked again. The floor buckled. Burning heat 
washed over me, hitting me with a small amount of damage. The room 
turned to Xs before half collapsing down to the next level. Black, acrid 
smoke filled the air, mixing in with the white of the smoke curtain. Above, 
the red dots harassing Donut all disappeared. 

A moment later, Donut leaped down and landed on my shoulder, trailing 
her ball of light. It glowed brighter than I’d ever seen before. I had to shield 
my eyes. 

“Did we get them all?” she asked. “They all disappeared when you did 
that.” 

“T think so. But I think we fried whatever loot Featherfall had.” 


“Let’s go look.” 

We re-entered the bedroom. The entire floor slumped down like a ramp 
down into the mall level. The fireball spell had crisped everything in the 
room. The ashes of Featherfall were scattered along the debris. 

“He wasn’t the boss,” I said. “If he was, he’d have a neighborhood map 
on him, even after we destroyed the body.” 

“Then it had to have been Miss Quill,” Donut said. “She was the boss 
lady all along. But her body is behind us, probably buried.” 

The building shuddered again. 

“It’s going to collapse,” I said. “We gotta get out of here.” 

“But what about the quest? We haven’t figured anything out.” 

I was about to say, we’re out of time, when I noticed the red dot on the 
map. One of the corpses, burnt to a crisp, had just switched from an X to a 
red dot. As I turned, forming a fist, the dot blinked again, this time turning 
white. 

It was a woman, one of the headless corpses. She was on the ground, 
and her head had magically returned to her body. She was a familiar human 
with long, dark hair. She’d been marked as a krasue that brief moment her 
dot was red, but now that it was white, the system designated her as a 
human. The lower half of her body was nothing but darkened char. She 
looked up at us, blinking in pain. She had one pale blue eye and one brown 
eye. This was Burgundy, the same woman we’d run into on the stairs when 
we’d visited earlier. One of the assistants to the magistrate. Her face was 
oddly unmarred by the damage. 

Donut leaped down, sniffing at her. The woman’s legs had turned to 
flaky, obsidian-colored logs of charcoal. “Carl, we have to help her.” 

I knelt down and pulled a healing potion. 

“No,” Burgundy said, her voice weak. “If you heal me, itll heal my 
body. Then I will turn into one of those things again. It’s too late for me. I 
am cursed. Damned. The kindest thing you can do is kill me while I’m still 
mortal. Hurry. Please. It hurts.” 

“So, you’re a person during the day, and one of those things at night?” I 
asked. 

“Yes,” she gasped. “I was brought here by the elves. I worked in another 
settlement, but they told me I could get a job at the Desperado Club. There 
was an entrance in this town. They talked me into coming. Everyone knows 
if you work in the club, there’s a chance you can descend. I could go to the 


Hunting Grounds. And then maybe even deeper, where it’s safe. But it was 
all a lie.” 

“You were you a prostitute?” I asked. 

Her lips quivered. “Yes, and if you don’t like it, fuck off. I’ve stabbed 
men for less.” She coughed. 

“We’re just trying to figure out what’s going on. Lots of your friends 
have been appearing in the alleys, twisted and dead.” 

“Its going to be okay, sweetie,” Donut added. She reached up and 
stroked at the woman’s hair. “Tell us as much as you can about Featherfall.” 

“Featherfall?” she asked. Her voice was getting weaker. “Can you make 
that light brighter? I can feel it keeping the curse away, but it’s fading.” 
Donut’s torch was like a blazing sun. She couldn’t make it brighter. 
“Featherfall wasn’t the one who did this. He’s been here the whole time, 
hanging on that thing. He was dead when I got here. His body was turned 
into a dark fetish, one to keep our bodies safe at night. Miss Quill’s the one 
who has been running the city the whole time. She’s the real magistrate.” 

I felt an odd amount of relief wash over me. Miss Quill was the bad guy. 
We'd killed the correct person. When the system said I’d killed a public 
official, it was her, not Featherfall. Also, this was like the hundredth time in 
the last day that the AI’s description of something had been inaccurate. It’d 
said Quill was the assistant to the Magistrate. It’d said Katia was a human, 
when she was really a doppelganger. It said Burgundy here was also human, 
when she was really one of those vampire things. The map labeled all these 
corpses with an X, when they could still tum into monsters. That was 
important to know, that we couldn’t trust anything. 

But if Quill was the mastermind, why hadn’t the quest ended? I reread 
what were supposed to do, focusing on the last line. 

Nobody knows who they are or where they come from. Find out 
why. 

The quest didn’t tell us to save the women. Or to kill who was 
responsible. We just needed to find out what was going on. We were almost 
there. We just had to get it out of this woman before the entire building 
crashed down. 

“Okay,” I said. “So how did you get like this?” 

“The elves had me go to their temple, and once I was there, Miss Quill 
came and got us. She asked us so many questions. I didn’t know why at the 


time. I thought she was going to take me to the club. Instead, she brought 
me to him.” 

“To who?” 

Below, something crashed. It reverberated throughout the entire floor. 
The smoke bomb had cleared, but the black smoke from the fires was now 
thicker. 

“To her husband. He’s in another place. It’s across the street. It is where 
the swordsmen guards stay in the evening. He is on the floor above. The 
guards don’t know he’s there, or they don’t care. They can’t look up.” 

“Her husband?” I asked. 

I tried to remember what Miss Quill had said about him. It wasn’t much. 
She’d said he was dead. And that he’d been magistrate before Featherfall. 
That was it. 

“Yes. His name is Remex. He’s doing something, casting a big spell. I 
don’t know what. He’s not alive, nor is he dead. He’s something in- 
between, something monstrous. He’s trying to bring himself fully back to 
life.” 

Fuck. Another bad guy. I’d been hoping all the bosses were dead. 

“But what does that have to do with you guys?” I asked. 

“Do you know what I am? What I have become? I am a krasue. A 
woman who lived a life of sin. One who died in anger and pain, and 
returned from the dead. During the day we live and work in this building, 
working as assistants and in the shops below. Collecting. At night, we are 
his army, doing his bidding, helping the city elves, whom he has also 
glamored into his control.” 

“Collecting what? And what about the women we find in the alleys?” 

“Every time a new skyfowl or chickadee comes into one of the shops in 
the mall, we are to pluck a feather from their plumage. I do not know why. 
We give them to Miss Quill.” 

“That doesn’t sound good,” said Donut. Mongo grunted in agreement. 

“As to the women... they are those whose sins aren’t enough. They are 
women who have come to work at the Desperado Club, but when they are 
brought to Remex, when he twists them, when their heads sometimes fly 
from their bodies, they do not always turn into krasue. It is not a perfect 
thing, this transformation. Sometimes they simply die. When this happens, 
he allows us to feed upon them. Then one of his avatars picks them up and 
drops them in the alleys. Miss Quill says they have to drop them within a 


few blocks of his lair. He controls the avatars as if they are his own limbs, 
but they can’t go far. Not yet.” 
“Avatars?” I asked. “Are they other skyfowl? I don’t understand.” 
Crack! The rest of the room slumped forward further. Burgundy’s body 
began to slide away. 
“Kill me, please!” she cried as the roof above her started to cave in. 
Donut hit her with a Magic Missile in the moments before her body 
disappeared. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 23 ] 


I PULLED THE ROPE BACK INTO MY INVENTORY WHILE I STILL HUNG 15 FEET 
off the ground. I was very happy I’d figured out that neat trick early on, 
before having to invest in multiple lengths of the stuff. Still, Donut was 
right. I needed a better method of going up and down. 

I crashed heavily onto the debris pile, though it didn’t hurt like it 
would’ve before. I briefly wondered exactly how far I could drop before I 
would take damage. Above, the entire structure trembled. The whole thing 
was going to fall in on our heads at any moment. We had to get out of here. 
The X of Quill’s body was there on my map, right under our feet, enticing 
me. We’d have to dig for an hour to get to her and the neighborhood map, 
which would be super useful right about now. That wasn’t going to happen. 

A sparkle of something caught my eye. A single, charred box sat half- 
buried in the debris. I picked it up as we fled. It was one of Miss Quill’s 
glass cases. It appeared unbroken despite being less than a foot from the 
explosion, which meant this thing was likely enchanted. The char rubbed 
right off. The plush creature within was an armored man atop a black horse. 
I peered at the tag, which said “Kimaris.” I pulled it all into my inventory. 

The building rumbled as we cleared the distance. We stopped in the 
street and turned to watch as the rest of the gigantic building caved in. We’d 
gotten out of there just in time. 

“We know what happened to the prostitutes now. We know why they 
were falling into the alleys,” Donut said, breathing heavily. “How come the 
quest didn’t finish?” 

“We know how they got there,” I said. “We still don’t know why. We 
don’t have the whole story.” I eyed the dark warehouse across the street. It 


was a simple, square, two-level building. There were no lights with only a 
large pair of double doors at the entrance. I could sense him there, on the 
second floor. Remex. “If we want to finish this, we need to go into that 
building. That’s the quest.” 

A crowd of NPCs watched the municipal building and mall collapse 
from a short distance away. I looked about in the air, but I didn’t see any 
skyfowl. There had been dozens of them out earlier, but they were all gone. 
I had the impression they didn’t like flying about at night. Still, it was 
unusual. 

A single blue dot of a crawler stood there in the crowd. I met the 
player’s eyes, and he approached us. I focused on the now-familiar name 
over his head. 

“Don’t let him see that fallen oak bracelet on your back leg,” I 
whispered. 

“Why?” Donut asked. “He’s not one of those elves.” 

“He’s related to the dead crawler you took it from. He’s also the same 
guy that killed that boss in the swimming pool. The one that blew up. The 
Divider.” 

“Oh, he’s disgusting,’ Donut said as the man got closer. He walked 
slowly and deliberately. I could see he didn’t have shoes, though I suspected 
for him this was a recent development thanks to his newly clawed feet. 
“Someone needs to teach him about muted colors. He looks like someone 
took Jack’s hat and made an overenthusiastic furry costume out of it.” 

“Be nice,” I whispered, trying not to laugh. Jack, the man who had peed 
on the wall and caused all the chaos on the second floor had been very fond 
of his orange Cincinnati Bengal’s hat. 

“No, I’m serious, Carl. This guy could be the second coming of Chuck 
Norris, but we can’t have him in the party. People would laugh at us.” 

“You know you’re a Persian cat, right?” I said. 

“What is that supposed to mean, Carl?” 

“Don’t worry,” I muttered. “He doesn’t look like he wants to join our 
party anyway.” 

“Hey there,” I said as he came to a stop before us. The man paused, 
looking me up and down. I felt my eyebrow raise as he examined me for an 
extended period. 

Crawler #2,165,570. “Daniel Bautista 2” 

Level 18. 


Race: Tigran. 

Class: Swashbuckler. 

He looked like a rejected character from Thundercats. He was a well- 
muscled, shirtless man, about six feet tall. He was furry and orange. Very 
furry. Very orange. He had the head of a human/big cat hybrid, with the 
orange, white, and black markings of a Siberian tiger. But unlike a tiger, his 
eyes had the vertical slits of a housecat. His nose and mouth were human, 
though covered with wisps of the orange fur. He also had a long, absurdly 
shaggy, tail. The effect would be comical if the dude didn’t look as if he 
could rip me in half. He held nine neighborhood boss markers. He wore a 
belt with a curved sword hanging in a scabbard. The sword also glowed 
orange. 

“Were you the ones who killed Miss Quill?” he finally asked. He had an 
Asian accent. I remembered the three corpses we’d run across several days 
earlier. Grace, Nica, and Lea. They all had the same last name. I assumed 
this guy was part of that family. They’d had someone with them who’d 
looted most of their gear. Donut had picked up that fallen oak anklet, and 
I’d looted two generic strength rings. If the man knew we had them, would 
he want the items back? That would be too bad for him if he did. I figured it 
would be for the best if we didn’t broach the subject at all. 

“Yes,” I said. “I take it you’re the guy whose quest we fucked over?” 

“I am,” he said. “I was supposed to break into her home and kill her. It 
would get me access to the Desperado Club. But when I went to her home, 
she rushed off. I tried to follow, but she can fly. She went straight to that 
building there, and a few minutes later came your explosion and her death.” 

“Did she have more of the stuffed creatures in her house?” Donut asked. 

Bautista grunted. “Yes. Her entire apartment was filled with them. Over 
a thousand of them. I have taken them all.” 

I shrugged. “Well, sorry about that. Like I said, we also have a quest 
that involved her. It’s not quite done yet, either.” 

He nodded slowly. He wanted to say something, but he was hesitating. 

“A few nights back, I saw you on the news program,” he finally added. 

“We’re on almost every night,” said Donut proudly. 

“You fought at that circus. You killed the lemurs. Is there nothing left?” 

He was trying to ask about his family, but he was having trouble getting 
it out. “No. They’re all gone. There’s a stairwell there now.” 


He nodded appreciatively. “There is another three kilometers due east 
from this village. Crawlers have been writing notes with the stairwell 
locations and leaving them in the bars.” 

“Good,” I said. I paused. “And yes, we saw them. The other Bautistas. 
We killed the lemurs responsible.” 

His tail whisked back and forth. “Thank you,” he said. “They were my 
sisters and cousin. All five of them died in seconds. It happened so fast. I 
was with my other cousin, and we barely got away.” 

I swallowed. There had only been three bodies, but I remembered 
thinking at the time that there’d been enough blood for more. 

Bautista continued. “He died the next day. My cousin, I mean. He’d 
given up. I’m all that’s left of my entire family. I had four brothers and 
sisters. Fifteen cousins.” He looked off into the distance. “I don’t know why 
I go on. I wish I hadn’t chosen this body. I should’ve remained true to 
myself. We all die anyway. How can we make it to heaven if god doesn’t 
recognize us?” 

I had no answer for that. 

An awkward silence followed. I shifted uneasily. “Well I’m sorry for 
your loss. And I am sorry about screwing up your quest.” 

He nodded. “It is no problem. I am happy knowing they have been 
avenged. I owe you a debt. Call me if you need me, and I will come.” He 
held out his fist, initiating the chat transfer. I hesitated, then reciprocated the 
gesture. His name appeared on my chat list. Then he turned and disappeared 
into the night. 

“That dude is very intense,” I said. 

“I would be too if I looked like that,” said Donut. “Their game guide let 
him pick that race. And one of his sisters or cousins had been that weird 
tree thing, remember? It’s like their guide wanted them to look stupid. And 
Katia’s game guide won’t help her. And remember that floating brain thing 
we Saw in the recap episode? The one for Frank Q and Maggie My? That 
thing was talking them into murdering people. I think most of these guides 
don’t like their jobs very much, and they take it out on the crawlers.” 

“I think you’re right,” I said. “Let me tell you a secret, Donut. Back 
before all this happened, it was considered a rare thing for somebody to find 
a job they truly loved.” 

“You don’t like fixing boats? Or being in the Navy?” 


“Not really. And I was in the Coast Guard. Not the Navy. They’re 
different,” I said. 

“Are you sure? Miss Beatrice always told people you were in the 
Navy.” 

“Tm sure, Donut.” 

“Well, what would you have done if you could do anything?” she asked. 

I thought about that for a long moment. I thought of the college 
applications I started to fill out, but never finished. “I would work for the 
forestry service as a forester.” 

“Doing what? Looking at trees all day?” 

“Yes,” I said. “I’ve seen enough ocean to last a lifetime. I’d be happy 
alone in the woods, watching for forest fires. God, I would give anything. 
That would be beautiful.” 

Donut grunted. “I know what I would do. I would write TV shows. Zev 
and I are going to start a television show writing team when we get out of 
here. We’re going to remake Gossip Girl but with an intergalactic slant.” 

I chuckled. “Is that right?” 

“Zev says the shows on Earth are better than anything she’s ever seen. 
We could make new ones and bring them to the universe. Maybe if the 
television shows are good enough, people wouldn’t be so interested in 
watching real-life people kill each other,” she said. 

I didn’t say anything for several moments. “You surprise me every day, 
Donut.” 

She didn’t give me the snarky response I was expecting. 

“So,” she said, “we calling it a night or are we going to fight a lich?” 

I sighed. We had about three hours until sunrise. “What do you think?” 


The massive door to the Swordsmen depot was not locked. It sat ajar, and I 
kept a wary eye on it as I climbed the ladder up the exterior side of the 
building. I was ready to bolt at the first sign of movement. I was more 
worried about the suits of armor than the lich. If those guys in there woke 
up, we were fucked. Even though I was now the town’s magistrate, nobody 
seemed to acknowledge that fact. Before, Featherfall—or I guess Miss Quill 
—had a very small amount of control over the guardians. I remembered 


when she tried to have them arrest me, and it hadn’t worked. Something 
told me I was going to be chased out of my own town the moment they 
woke up no matter what I did. 

Remex the lich had been quiet this whole time. Donut braved jumping 
to the roof, and she managed to get a hit on her map. She said it was 
something regular sized, like a normal skyfowl. She said it hadn’t been 
moving, and she didn’t see anything else in the room. Her map’s ability to 
sense mobs was better than my own, but it was also famously unreliable 
when it came to hidden mobs, so I was cautious. 

Earlier, I’d peered through the open door of the first level to get a quick 
view of what was going on in there and to gauge the height of the interior 
ceiling. Even in the dark, I could see them. The inactive Swordsmen guards. 
They stood in silent formation, hundreds of them, reminding me of the 
Chinese terracotta army. They didn’t have dots over them in my map at all. 
I didn’t know if that was a good thing or not. 

Their metallic bodies swirled with a yellow aura, all of it leading to a 
point in the ceiling. There would be a soul crystal up there somewhere. 
Mordecai said that at night, the guards were in “stasis” mode, and that they 
were invulnerable. I’d entertained the quick notion of locking them in their 
warehouse and just blowing them all to hell, including the lich, over and 
over again until they died, which would result in an obscene amount of 
experience. But it looked as if that wasn’t going to happen. Not tonight. 

And I couldn’t just roll a bomb into the lich’s chambers, either. He 
appeared to be the last bad guy standing, so I needed to get the bad guy 
soliloquy out of him before we killed him. That way we could win the 
quest. 

We had determined that there was no mute spell in the area, or any other 
protections that we could see. That didn’t mean there wasn’t a nasty 
surprise waiting for us, but at least we’d be able to rely on magic. 

I placed the tenth and final stick of goblin dynamite on the exterior, 
exposed joist, using the sticky detonator charge to attach it to the structure. 
Each stick of hobgoblin pus allowed for up to ten simultaneous detonations 
with one button press. I was going to use all ten tonight if we had to. I 
hoped we didn’t. 

Below, half the village stood on the street, watching. They held torches 
and scythes and other items of medieval weaponry. I hadn’t summoned 
them, but Fitz the tavernkeeper had raised the alarm after he overheard 


Mordecai and Katia discussing the idea of a lich in town. Even though it 
was the equivalent of 3:30 AM, he’d rushed out, shouting that the “night 
patrol” needed to defend the city. Since half the town was already wide- 
awake with the collapse of the municipal building, it didn’t take long for a 
crowd to form. 

Before we knew it, we had a group of NPCs gathering around the 
warehouse. They ranged from orcs to humans to elves to dozens of other, 
more obscure races. But no skyfowl or the smaller chickadees. It was as if 
they didn’t care about the plight of the city, as long as the damage remained 
on the ground. Across the street, smoke still rose from the collapsed debris 
of the mall and municipal building. The night smelled of dust and fire. 

After all of our preparations, we now only had about forty minutes left 
before the armor suits would reanimate. The tops of distant buildings 
already glowed with the first signs of the faux sunrise. We had to move 
quickly. 

“That’s the last of them,” I said, stepping my way to the ground. One of 
the rungs broke off, and I cursed. I spent a quick minute fixing it. I pulled 
the handmade ladder into my pack. I’d hastily built the thing with crap from 
my inventory. It was a rickety, slipshod combination of lengths of wood and 
metal weight bars that would give an OSHA inspector a coronary. It had 
taken me almost an hour to construct. If we survived past tonight, I was 
going to build another one of these, but one that was built properly. 

“You ready?” I asked. 

“No,” Donut said. “I don’t like this plan, Carl.” 

Mongo was in his carrier. He’d proven that we couldn’t trust him to stay 
still when things started to get out of control, and we definitely needed to 
control the narrative here. And Donut needed to focus. 

We were relying on Mordecai’s advice to keep ourselves alive. 

“Liches come in all shapes and sizes and power levels. You never know 
what they’re going to be,” he’d said earlier this evening. “But they all have 
one thing in common, each and every one of them.” 

“What’s that?” I asked. 

He looked up at the ceiling wryly. “They’re just like Odette. They never, 
ever shut the hell up. They are narcissists to a fault. And they are cowards. 
Now that they have grasped a handful of life, they will do whatever they 
can not to let it go again. That’s why they always have minions. They 


always have elaborate, grandiose plans. That’s why I think you should just 
blow the building and take a chance at losing the quest.” 

This was earlier, when we still thought that Featherfall was the lich and 
that his lair was in that building. But since then, Mordecai had changed his 
mind. He seemed to think that because we’d killed most of Remex’s support 
system, he would be vulnerable. It was now worth the risk to approach him. 
Mordecai also said that it made sense that he’d hide above the warehouse of 
the swordsmen. A magical crystal was used to “recharge” the swordsmen 
each night, and anyone searching the town using magical means wouldn’t 
see him there. 

Mordecai: Here’s another wrinkle. This is obviously another boss. 
And since that one earlier was a Neighborhood Boss, I’d bet my left 
nipple this one is a Borough Boss. So even if he’s been weakened, you 
need to come to the fight prepared. 

So we made the decision. We were going to confront the lich while he 
was weak. He already knew we were coming. It was likely he’d been 
watching this whole time. So we would slowly and deliberately ring the 
exterior of the building with explosives, enough to turn the whole structure 
into dust. 

My original plan was to have Donut stay outside while I went in solo. 
She absolutely refused. 

“You promised me that I wouldn’t die alone,” she said. “You can’t keep 
that promise if you die before me. We do this together.” 

I relented, but it required a change to the plans. 

Katia now stood in the crowd. Her face was much better, much more 
natural. She still looked like a burn victim who fell face-first out of the ugly 
tree, but I wouldn’t question she was a human now. I summoned her over. 

“Here,” I said. “Hold onto this for me.” I handed her a pencil-like 
detonator. 

“Whoa, whoa,” she said, backing up, refusing to take it. “Don’t give 
that to me.” 

“Keep it in your inventory,” I said, shoving it into her hand. “If we die, 
or if I say so, press the button. No questions. Just do it.” 

“Why don’t you hold onto it?” she asked, looking at it like I’d just 
handed her a live snake. “Carl, the description says it might click on its 
own.” 

“Put it in your inventory. It’ll be fine,” I said. 


It disappeared into her pack. 

“Why me?” she asked again. She looked ill. 

“We don’t know if this guy has some sort of mind control. It’s a lich 
thing. We need someone outside the sphere of influence to hold onto the 
boom switch just in case.” 

“So, what’s your angle here?” she asked. “Mutually assured 
destruction?” 

“That’s right,” I said. “All we want is information. All he wants is to 
live. It’s a gamble, sure. But it’s not like we’re not constantly on the 
precipice of death anyway.” 

She shook her head. “Hekla warned me that you were crazy.” 

“Just be sure to be about a block away before you press it. There’s 
enough dynamite in there to blow your weird snow boots back to Iceland.” I 
raised my voice and called to the crowd. “You are all still in the blast zone. 
Yov’ll want to back up. A lot.” 

We stepped into the warehouse as the crowd started to scatter. I gave the 
Swordsmen a nervous glance as we quickly moved to the small trap door 
cut into the corner of the room. I pulled my ladder and began to ascend. 
Donut remained on my shoulder, trembling. 

“Its moving. But it’s going to the back corner of the room, like it’s 
running away,” Donut said. 

“Don’t kill us,” I called as I came into the room. “You kill us, you’ll die 
too!” 

I took a deep inhalation of breath as I examined the monster quivering 
in the far corner. 

Carl: Not a lich, Mordecai. Not a fucking lich! 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[ 24 ] 


“Do YOU UNDERSTAND ME?” I ASKED. 

“Do not approach. No, no. Stay away. Do not blow me up,” Remex said. 
His voice came out in rasps. “Please. Do not get closer.” 

Confused, I examined the creature’s properties. Despite all of our 
preparations and Mordecai’s warnings, he was not a boss. Or a lich. 

Remex — Soul Leech Capacitor. Level 1. 

This is a Bereft Minion of Miss Quill 

Have you ever played with a Ouija board and realized that 
speaking with a lost loved one just wasn’t doing it for you anymore? 
Perhaps you wanted to kick it up a notch? Maybe bring them back to 
life? And then maybe make them get a job? A Soul Leech Capacitor 
can do that for you. 

These fragile, but physically strong undead creatures can only be 
created by a Necromancer or a Dark Cleric. The spell latches onto the 
most-loved soul of the spell’s target and yanks that creature back into 
existence. The resurrected spirit is forever attached to the loved one. 
But the Soul Leech is like a nick in the plane between life and death, 
and they exist in neither. A simple scratch from this beast will rip your 
soul straight from your body. That soul power is stored in the 
capacitor, allowing the Leech’s owner to access huge reserves of mana 
points. 

“You know,” I said to Donut, “every time I think these guys reach a new 
level of fucked-upedness, they surprise me. If he makes one move toward 
us, Magic Missile him.” 


Remex looked much like Featherfall had, only this guy was alive. Sort 
of. He appeared to be a zombified, featherless skyfowl. His eyes were 
black, swirling orbs. Hazy black smoke rose from the body. Ethereal, 
worm-like wisps swirled about the creature, like a parody of the full wings 
he once had. 

A thin, thread-like twist of golden light flowed into the creature’s chest, 
tethering him to a golf ball-sized, amber-hued jewel that floated in the 
middle of the room. A stalk of light flowed downward through a small hole 
in the floor. Additional tendrils of golden light whipped about the gem, 
flying in all directions, as if it was seeking further items to feed. I cringed as 
the light ripped across me, but I didn’t feel anything. It seemed the light was 
harmless to those who couldn’t use it. 

The eagle huddled in the corner, gasping. He appeared to be in agony. 

Carl: What the hell is a bereft minion? 

Mordecai: It’s a minion who is still alive after their controller is 
dead. It looks like you killed the head bad guy when you blew up Miss 
Quill. It happens. Quests sometimes look bigger than they really are. I 
should have known since it was only a silver quest. Sorry about making 
you waste all that dynamite. Get the information out of him, put him 
out of his misery, and then get back here before the swordsmen wake 
up. Otherwise you’ll be stuck in that warehouse all day. 

I quickly examined the jewel. 

Soul Crystal. C-Grade. 

Elf technology. It’s like a wireless charger. Instead of electricity, it 
runs on the soul power of everything killed within the area. And 
instead of charging your iPhone, this particular gem tops off the town’s 
Swordsmen guards each night. Some of that power is also leeching into 
something else. 

If this crystal is physically touched by living flesh, it will shatter and 
cease to work. 

Mordecai had already told us a bit about these things. They were indeed 
worthless once they were activated. Breaking it would stop the guards from 
charging up, but it wouldn’t otherwise hurt them. They’d eventually run out 
of juice, but it wouldn’t happen right away. 

“Were you watching? Did you see what I did to the outside of this 
building?” I asked. 


“T saw. I saw,” he said. “You gave your friend the remote. My wife cast 
the spell. She has a thousand eyes, all watching at once. Watching, tasting. 
We see all. She cast the spell through me, and the vision comes through me 
and into her. But now she is gone, and it is building, building. There is 
nowhere to go. Her soul is lost now. With the sunrise, the release. The 
release.” 

He wasn’t making any sense. 

“So Quill would cast the spells, but she would do it through you? Is that 
what it means for you to be a capacitor?” 

“Yes. So much power, so much power. With the little ones. With the 
antennae. All of it is gathered. Gathering. She has to siphon it away. She is 
gone, gone. She is gone. No spell tonight. No siphon tonight.” 

“Great, another loon,” Donut muttered. 

I tried to make my voice soothing. He was still all the way on the other 
side of the room, but I didn’t want to approach him. “Tell us about the little 
ones. The girls. Tell us about Featherfall and Miss Quill. How you came to 
be.” 

The creature blinked, as if seeing us for the first time. The swirls of 
light around him lashed about. The cloudiness of his eyes vanished. “Who 
are you? Where am I?” 

I repeated my question, but more slowly. He settled into the corner, 
wrapping his bare, emaciated wings around himself, like he was a scared 
child. 

“You’re here for the story. I understand now. I have waited so long for 
someone to tell. All I had to do was tell the story, and I would be done.” 

“Please,” I said. “Yes. Tell us, and we won’t hurt you.” 

He nodded slowly. “Please, give me a moment. Don’t kill me before it’s 
done. I have practiced this. It’s a lot, but I gotta get it out. Here is the story. 
He... Featherfall. He never liked the guards. He only held a small amount 
of control over them. He wanted more. He asked me, after I retired and 
handed the perch to him. That’s right. He asked me what must be done to 
control the swordsmen. To control them, I said, one must know what they 
are. How they are animated, how they came to be. Wait, don’t ask about 
that. That’s not important. It’s a tangent. We have to avoid tangents. 
Featherfall was short-sighted. He had no ambition other than power over 
this small town. His kingdom. Skyfowl ruled this world. Did you know 
that? Before that demon destroyed it all. I like to think of it as a metaphor. 


Some say the Primals... No. I can’t. That’s off script. Sorry, sorry. Please. 
The skyfowl were once on top of the world. In control of the Over City. It’s 
important you know that.” 

“What happened?” I asked. “How did he get put into that thing?” 

“You are like him. You only care about what is in front of you right 
now. You don’t see the larger picture. I think that’s what I needed to say.” 

Donut: Carl. Something is happening. Something weird. The 
counter is being slow as usual, but I think our views are going really 
high. I keep getting achievements for views and followers. You 
probably are too. I don’t understand why. 

I ignored her. “Show me the small picture first. Then zoom it out for 
me.” 

Remex shifted then continued. “Let me finish the story. Don’t kill me. I 
have to start over if you kill me. The orc, he killed me. Years ago.” 

“Tm going to kill you right here and now if you don’t get on with it,” 
Donut said. 

He made a half whimper, half cheeping noise that sounded utterly 
pitiful. “I shall finish. After I passed, Featherfall approached my wife. 
Quill. Miss Quill they say, but I don’t know why they added the Miss. He 
asked her to help him cast the spell. He knew bringing another dark cleric 
like myself from the dim would make an especially strong capacitor, giving 
him the additional soul power he needed to subjugate the swordsmen. He 
put himself into the Night Votive position, with my wife in the room to 
assist.” 

I could barely follow his story. “Wait, so Miss Quill knew that you 
would be ripped from death and turned into what you are now? And she 
was Okay with that?” 

“Oh, yes,” he said. “She’s not really... no, I can’t say that. Remex. 
Think, think. Oh yes, she also knew Featherfall was making a grave error 
by casting the spell too close to the Amplifier.” 

“Amplifier?” I asked. 

“Oh yes. You are standing before it. The roof is the antennae, and the 
soul crystal stores the power. It captures the energy from the lost souls in 
the area. It is this that keeps the swordsmen animated. High Elf magic. 
They are the ones who... No, another tangent. Wrong path. At night, the 
swordsmen are recharged. But Featherfall’s quarters are right across the 
way. When he cast the spell, I was manifested and brought into existence. 


But he was killed by the feedback. My wife, she planned this. She’d been 
planning it all along, her entire life. It was exactly what was supposed to 
happen. I was damned the moment I became her husband. I was now a 
capacitor for her. She pretended as if the magistrate was still alive, and she 
took up the duties of running the settlement. She was a powerful mage. She 
had a forgery spell. It fooled everyone.” 

Mordecai: You guys are running low on time. Finish this and get 
out of there. 

Carl: Almost done. 

“And why did you bring the women in? The prostitutes?” 

“Don’t... Don’t trip me up. You listen. We’re getting there. First, she 
took control of those fool elves. She cast an illusion, a resplendent skyfowl 
from legend to speak to them, pretend to be an angel, make them believe 
their tree god is coming for them. I could make them fly, manipulate things. 
The avatars, I mean. She never liked getting her hands dirty. So she used 
them. For intimidation. Corpse removal. My avatars. One looked like my 
son. My boy. Lost in time. But they couldn’t move far from here. So my 
wife instead sent the elves about on her task, to bring the women to us. 
These women just kept coming, searching for a better life. Over and over. 
Sometimes, I could see it in their eyes. They were like me. A tenner. Don’t 
get undead, they told us. Don’t get undead. It’s not worth it. Wait, ignore 
that.” 

Getting him to stay on the subject was like trying to steer without a 
rudder. “Okay, but why did she bring the women to you?” 

“For two reasons. My wife had grand plans, plans set forth long ago. 
But she needed help, help that couldn’t be fully accomplished by the city 
elves. The krasue are easy to control. Easy to make if you have the correct 
materials. They fly, and they are intact and compliant during the day. Plus 
the act of generating them creates a powerful spike of soul power, adding to 
my energy. And since the raw materials come from out of town, nobody 
would notice she was collecting them.” 

“Somebody did notice. Gumgum noticed,” Donut said. 

“So, you power up every time something dies?” 

“Yes. And my position here allows me to also leech off the souls 
flowing into the crystal. My wife knew this, but even she couldn’t predict 
the sheer amount of energy. I can feel it. It is so much. Mana points. That 


feeling when you drink the potion, of the mana points flowing back into 
you, but it never stops coming.” 

I felt a chill. I was finally reading between the lines. We needed to hurry 
this along. “So, your wife was building an army? Why?” 

“She was a granddaughter of the royal family. Ambition soared through 
her. She was going to reclaim it all. But you killed her, and you found me. 
She dies, but I’m never found. But this time. I have been discovered. There 
was an orc, once. He found me. He killed me before I finished the story.” 

“Focus, Remex. Tell me about Quill. When you say reclaim it all, what 
does that mean?” 

“Oh yes, of course. The spell. I need to mention the spell. She was 
preparing The Final War. It is a three-part spell. Heirloom magic. First cast 
by her grandfather, then her mother, then she was to complete it. Like 
Scolopendra’s nine-tier attack that ruined our kingdom, she has prepared 
something that will reclaim the Over City for the skyfowl.” 

“She was waiting to collect enough power before she could cast this 
spell, then?” I asked. “And she needed the army to do what? Protect her 
while she cast it?” 

“That is correct. Before, during, and after. And the krasue would be her 
lieutenants, her eyes and ears for the battle. But she had enough power. 
More than enough. She’d already started. She did.” 

“Wait, what would have happened if she’d completed the casting?” I 
asked. 

“Oh, it is a glorious spell. The third and final act of The Final War is a 
long, dangerous spell that takes three nights to cast. She’d done the first. 
Was going to do the second tonight. Thousands. Thousands of mana points. 
Once completed, the beasts she unleashed would sweep across the Over 
City and slaughter all but those whose essence she has protected, those she 
added to the spell.” 

“You mean the feathers?” I asked. “So, the skyfowl and midget skyfowl, 
whatever they’re called would be safe?” 

“Chickadees,” Donut said. “I like those guys. They’re cute.” 

“Yes,” Remex said. “Them and their entire families. Everyone else 
would perish.” 

“Ahh,” I said. I looked at Donut. “Everyone would be dead except the 
flyers. We just stopped a genocide.” 


“T guess that makes up for you killing all those baby goblins on the first 
floor,” said Donut. 

“We’re not having this conversation again.” 

Quest completed. The Sex Workers Who Fell from the Heavens. 

“Hey, we didn’t even have to kill this guy,” said Donut. “And we didn’t 
have to blow up any more buildings tonight, either.” 

Remex laughed. It was a dry, almost airless croak. “That’s it. That’s it. I 
did it. I did it!” The dry laugh turned to sobs. 

“What is he talking about, Carl?” Donut asked. 

“Pll tell you later.” Pity swept over me. Jesus, I thought, watching the 
undead thing cry empty tears. “Remex. It’s done. You’ve told us the story. 
Do you want us to kill you or to leave you?” 

“Kill me, let me live, it doesn’t matter now. It doesn’t matter. With the 
sunrise, I will be gone. As you will be, too. Listen, boy. Don’t be sad. You 
didn’t know. It’s a lucky thing, a mercy to die here.” He pointed toward the 
ground with his wing. “And not make it down there. It is so much better. 
Wait with me.” 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

The announcement wasn’t just in my head. It came over the 
loudspeaker, like the daily update. 

New Quest. The Fools Who Broke the Glass. 

THIS IS A GROUP QUEST. All Crawlers currently within the 45 
square kilometer blast radius will receive this quest. 

Your party has been designated Host of this Group Quest. As hosts, 
you will not be allowed to opt-out from this quest. 

What the hell is going on? Am I glad you asked! 

A while back a certain NPC started casting a very powerful spell, a 
spell so potent, that it had to be completed by a future generation. 

Here’s the thing with old spells. They’re like trees. They grow. They 
get big. Sometimes huge. Bad shit happens when they get screwed up. 
The bigger the spell, the badder the shit. And boy was this spell big. 
Not gonna lie. Your favorite AI was looking forward to it going off. 

Oh well. This will be almost as good. 

Shit is about to go down. For example, you may have noticed every 
Skyfowl and Chickadee NPC in the area has fallen ill. Most of them 
have already plunged into a coma, or death. It’s not their fault, but 
they were tied to the spell, and that’s just the way it is. 


Just like it’s not your fault that you happen to be within 45 
kilometers of the fallout from this failed spell. Again, not your fault. 
(Well, unless you’re Crawlers Carl, Princess Donut, or Katia Grim. 
Then it is your fault.) That’s just the way it is. Sucks to be you. 

There’s going to be an explosion. The epicenter of the blast is 
marked on your map. Every crawler within the designated blast area is 
fucked. 

The object of this quest is simple. Unfuck yourself. Don’t die. 

Warning: This is an event quest. If you do not wish to participate in 
this quest, you will have sixty seconds from the end of this message to 
get yourselves into a saferoom. After that, all access to saferooms 
within the quest zone will be shut off until the event quest is concluded. 
All NPCs who remain indoors, saferoom or not, will remain safe. All 
mobs and neighborhood-level boss monsters within the blast radius 
subject to both physical and magical explosions will be killed. 

Reward: All participants who survive will receive a Platinum Quest 
Box. 

Oh, by the way. The explosion is coming in seven minutes. 

Run. 

“What the fuck? How is that a quest?” I cried. 


Mordecai: Run. Desperado Club. It’s not a saferoom, but the second 
room is out of the blast radius. 

Katia: I don’t have access to the club! I can’t go to a saferoom 
because I’m a quest host! 

Carl: Protective Shell? 

Mordecai: Won’t work. Magical blast. Go. 

“Fuck!” I cried. “We have to get to the club. Let’s go.” 

“What about Katia?” Donut said. “That’s not fair. We promised we’d 
keep her safe. This is our fault.” 

“Tt’s not,” I said. I didn’t bother going down the ladder. I just jumped all 
the way, hitting the ground heavily. Behind me, the guards stopped glowing. 
An entire wall of white dots appeared on the map. I knew in a moment 
those dots were going to turn red once the Swordsmen noticed me here. 


Donut hesitated and leaped to my shoulder. Her ears were flattened against 
her head. 

Shit, shit, shit! I pulled up my map, looking for the fastest route. The 
Desperado Club was three blocks away. We could make it if we ran. 

“Look,” I said. “This was going to happen one way or another. That’s 
why they tried to get that Bautista guy to kill Miss Quill, too. They wanted 
this explosion quest to trigger.” 

I had a weird chat notification. I pulled it up, and the window said 
Quest Chat. 

This was different than regular chat. This was like a Discord chatroom, 
with a whole group of crawler names on the list. There were about 80 
names there. 

Quan Ch: Thanks a lot Carl and Donut, you fucking assholes. 

That was the only message. Oh fuck off, I thought. I clicked it away. But 
that list of names, all crawlers who were likely about to die, stunned me. 
Eighty people. 

I moved to also close the map, but I paused, seeing something 
unexpected. A tiny, round star appeared where the explosion’s epicenter 
would be. I zoomed in tight. 

“Carl?” Donut said. “The guards are waking up!” 


Carl: Mordecai, the soul gem is the epicenter. Not Remex. If I break the 
gem, will that cancel the explosion? 

Mordecai: I don’t know. I don’t think it will stop it. Probably make 
it blow early. The quest is called The Fools Who Broke the Glass for a 
reason. They want you to do that. Get the hell out of there. 

Donut: WE CAN’T ABANDON KATIA! 

Katia: It’s okay. Thank you, Donut. I understand. I’m getting the 
NPCs back into their homes. Run, guys. Go. 

Donut: WHAT ABOUT YOU, MORDECAI? 

Mordecai: I’m in my room. I’m safe. Hurry the hell up! 

“Fuck,” I muttered, looking up at the hole in the ceiling. 

“Carl?” Donut asked. 

“Donut, we have a choice. Save ascended. 

I didn’t answer. I just reached up and scratched her. I had an idea. I 
doubted it was going to work. 


We returned to the room. Remex remained in the corner, his eyes 
closed. He appeared to be fading. 

“You returned,” he said. He didn’t open his eyes. “Welcome to the end 
of days.” 

The soul gem hovered in the room. The entire crystal vibrated. The 
tendrils of light had stopped shooting from it, including the large river down 
into the room below and the golden strand leading into Remex. 

A red timer counted down over the gem. It was at four minutes and 
thirty seconds. 

I pulled Miss Quill’s beanie baby from my inventory. It wasn’t hard to 
find. Kimaris, the stuffed horse-riding soldier was the very top item when I 
sorted my current inventory by value. 

The second item on the list was the protective carrier it was stored in. 
The door to the small, glass case wasn’t locked. It was a small, hinged flap 
held closed by a cheap-looking hook and eyebolt. I opened the little door 
and pulled the stuffed animal back into my inventory. 

I gave the glass case a quick examination. 

Sheol Glass Reaper Case. 

Forged in the fires of Sheol, the mysterious 15th level of the World 
Dungeon, these protective, expensive artifacts are built and sold by 
traveling Spider Reaper Minions. They also sell lollipops, which are 
said to be out of this world. 

When you absolutely, positively want to keep something safe, put it 
in this box. It will protect against most—but not all—forms of abuse. 

Warning: Every time you open this case, there is a 1.5% chance you 
will be blasted with the Sheol Fire spell. That’s not a good thing. The 
item within the case will remain protected. 

I swallowed. I probably should have read that description before I’d 
opened it to pull the beanie out. I kept the door open now. 

I remembered that moment we’d jumped from the civic building and 
landed in the debris. There’d been a flash of light. Looking back now, I 
realized it’d been deliberate. The system had brought my attention to the 
case. It was just like any regular game. Seemingly random objects were 
sometimes placed there intentionally, just to keep the game fair. That’s what 
this was. 

I held the case in my hand, and I approached the pulsing gem. Careful 
not to touch it with my hands, I closed the case around the floating gem, 


like I was catching a firefly with my two hands. I shut the door, and I 
gingerly hooked it closed. 

I tried to pull the whole thing into my inventory, and I received an error. 

Yeah. Nice try, asshole. 

“Oh, fuck off,” I said. I hadn’t expected that to work. After taking a 
deep breath, I let go. I cringed as the case fell a couple inches, clinking to a 
stop as it fell against the gem floating within. But it remained there, 
floating. The gem itself was starting to vibrate faster and faster, with little 
cracks forming along the edge. The glass case’s description, that it protected 
against “most” forms of abuse, did not give me confidence. A magical 
explosion that was going to flatten 45 square kilometers of dungeon seemed 
like it would probably be pretty high on the shortlist of attack types that 
would break this thing. 

We still had two and a half minutes on the countdown. Not even close to 
the amount of time we’d need to get to safety. 

“Oh my god, Carl. Is that going to work?” Donut asked. 

“I don’t know. I doubt it. But it’s worth a try.” I paused. “I’m sorry, 
Donut. I should have told you my idea before forcing you to choose.” 

She made a grunting noise. “You always pretend like I’m the stubborn 
one, but once your mind is made up, Carl, it’s impossible to change it. 
There’s nothing to be sorry for.” 

I sat on the ground, exhausted. Donut jumped into my lap, and we 
stared at the floating glass case. 

Remex rocked back and forth in the corner, muttering, “I’m coming, 
son. Any minute now. I’m coming. I missed you so much. I’m coming.” 

“What is he talking about?” Donut asked. 

“He was a crawler,” I said. “He called himself a tenner. I reckon that 
means someone who got out on the tenth floor. I think he might’ve been 
famous once. It explains the views.” 

“Carl, I don’t want to become an NPC,” Donut said. “I guess it won’t 
matter if we die.” 

I reached up and scratched her head. Forty-five seconds. “I’m proud of 
you, you know that?” 

“Why?” 

“You’ve grown. You being worried about Katia? You don’t even know 
her, but you’d promised to keep her safe. My first instinct was to abandon 
her.” 


She laughed. “I just don’t want Hekla mad at us. We already have that 
Lucia Mar after us. And Maggie My. And the Maestro’s dad.” 

I chuckled. Fifteen seconds. “Can’t say we didn’t try, that’s for sure.” 

“Carl?” she asked. 

I looked down into her large, glowing eyes. “Yeah?” 

“Tm not as dumb as I pretend to be. I know she’s dead.” 

“I know.” I wrapped myself around her. We both closed our eyes and 
braced for the end. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[2a] 


REMEX SCREAMED. THE SUDDEN, TERRIFYING NOISE JOLTED MY EYES OPEN. 
I took in the room. 

“Fuck,” I said, scrambling up. I jumped for the case, which had fallen to 
the ground. 

We hadn’t died. Obviously. Light streamed from the container like a 
miniature, caged sun. The explosion had been completely silent. Lance-like 
rays burst from the glass, one of them streaming directly into Remex’s 
chest, who was now on the floor, screaming and convulsing. Whatever had 
happened to him, it had bestowed upon him the ability to roar with 
supernatural volume. 

The case itself glowed red hot. The floor was on fire, the wooden 
floorboards bubbling and bowing under the extreme heat. I feared the whole 
thing was about to fall through, taking us with it. The glass case and gem 
had transformed itself. I didn’t have time to read the full description, but my 
eyes focused on the Status: Explosion Imminent in the two seconds before 
I grabbed it. Please, please, I thought. My fingers burned as I pulled it into 
my inventory. I cried out as the caged explosion disappeared. 

“Holy shit,” I said as I cast Heal on myself. My skin had burned off, so 
thoroughly and quickly it barely even hurt for the initial two seconds. That 
changed as it started to heal itself. I gasped in pain. 

A page of notifications appeared. I waved them away for now. I 
examined the newest item in my inventory. 

Carl’s Doomsday Scenario 

Type: Unstable custom explosive 

Effect: An explosion large enough to rattle the teeth of a god. 


Status: Explosion Imminent (3/1x10’) 

Created by a man who murders babies and steals rare collectibles 
from his elders, this device is powerful enough to level an entire city 
and all the suburbs around it. It is created by combining a massively 
overloaded soul crystal and a Sheol Glass Reaper Case. 

Warning: This item can no longer be stabilized. 

“The quest hasn’t ended,” said Donut. “But we’re not dead, either.” 

I just sat there on the floor, breathing heavily. My hand ached, my 
fingers and palm pulsing despite the healing. I couldn’t believe that had 
worked. I hadn’t been able to put it into my inventory until after it had 
exploded. But what the hell was I going to do with the thing? The moment I 
removed it from my inventory, it would explode. I would have less than a 
second. 

At least we were alive. 

“Uh, Carl,” Donut said a moment later. “You don’t happen to have any 
more of those glass cases, do you? Maybe a really big one?” 

I looked up to see Remex, still convulsing on the ground. 

“Oh mother fuck,” I said. 

“You sure have been swearing a lot lately. I’m not sure I like that, Carl.” 

Now Remex had a timer over him. Twenty minutes. It hadn’t started 
counting down yet, but the timer blinked red. I cringed as the new 
notification came. 

Quest Update. 

You’ve probably noticed you’re not dead. Everybody say, “Thank 
you, Crawler Carl.” Pll give you a second to luxuriate in your victory. 

That’s the good news. You might want to sit down for this next part. 

Remex shrieked, and the world went white for a moment. I suddenly 
felt heavier, more tired. A massive racket filled the warehouse, like the 
sound of dozens of pots and pans crashing to the ground. 

“What happened?” Donut asked. 

“Tt’s like when we’re in a production trailer. We just lost all of our 
equipment stat buffs.” 

The bad news is there’s still an explosion coming. A bigger bang, 
actually, but the area of effect will be similar. I won’t bore you guys 
with the technical details, but what you just felt is called a precursor 
burst. It’s a foreshock. The first of four before the big show. The one 


you just felt temporarily removed the magical properties of all your 
equipped gear. The next one will do something different. 

All of this will culminate with a burst of pure, wild magic much 
more potent than the magically-infused chemical explosion from which 
you guys were just spared. Less physical damage to the environment. 
More face melting. I prefer this, if we’re being honest. Have you ever 
put a marshmallow in a microwave? Imagine your head as the 
marshmallow. It’ll be kinda like that. Prepare your defenses 
accordingly. 

You now have twenty minutes to save yourselves. 

“Come on,” I said. “We gotta go.” I stood and turned, once again, for 
the small trap door. I gave one last look at Remex, who remained in the 
comer, convulsing. Every instinct told me to put him out of his misery, but I 
knew that would likely be a very Bad Idea. 

And that’s when the floor collapsed. 

I cried out, landing in a heap in the midst of a room full of sizzling 
armor pieces and swords. The EMP-like burst from Remex had deactivated 
all of the swordsmen guards, causing the armor to fall to the ground like 
junk. I groaned as I pulled a few random pieces of armor, along with a 
colossal broadsword into my inventory. I yanked myself to my feet and 
downed a healing potion. At least those still worked. 

Remex hadn’t fallen through. A loud, electric hum now emanated from 
him, still up on the second floor, just beyond the hole in the ceiling. The 
noise grew louder until it overwhelmed his constant screams. 

“Where are we going?” Donut asked. We rushed from the building and 
turned right, heading due east. I pulled up the quest chat and started 
furiously typing instructions, giving people their two options for escape. 

Mordecai: Take off every magical item you have and put it in your 
inventory. Stop whatever you’re doing and do it now. It’ll be safe in 
your inventory, but not on your skin. I don’t know what the hell you 
just did, but your current situation is only barely better. 

Carl: I don’t have any clothes that aren’t magical except my jacket. 
Even my underwear is magic now. 

Mordecai: Goddamnit, Carl. No time to argue. Nobody is going to 
care about your trunk swinging in the air. 

Donut: WHAT ABOUT MY CROWN? 


Thanks to the tiara’s Fleeting status, it would disappear if she removed 
it. And then it would be given to another crawler, which would be a very 
bad thing. Only one of them would be allowed to proceed to the tenth floor. 
Mordecai paused for an unusually long time. 

Mordecai: Better leave it on. But there’s a chance you might lose it. 
It’s possible one of those bursts is going to have a negative effect on 
your stats permanently. You might get hit with Sepsis, too. The poison 
effect will be negated, but it'll still stagger you. Wild soul magic is 
unpredictable. It turns your own magical items against you. Keep 
Mongo locked up. 

Dozens of responses to my group chat post poured in as I pulled my 
gear off, including my underwear. I also removed my xistera, just to be safe. 
Removing the stuff was easy, a lot easier than putting it on. I could just 
transfer it directly to my inventory. Goddamnit, I thought, reading the 
messages in the chat. Three different crawlers had given me the same 
response. The entrance to the back room at the Desperado Club had 
disappeared when the safe rooms closed off. They were insulating the club 
from the impending disaster. 

That left us with only one escape. 

Katia came jogging up, along with a handful of other crawlers, mostly 
human. I didn’t know any of them. Daniel Bautista was not among them. 

“Okay, guys,” I said. “If you haven’t already, magical gear off. We have 
sixteen minutes, and we need to run at full speed. We’re out of time.” 

The group just looked at me. Finally, one of them said, “Dude, why are 
you naked?” 

I pointed east. “Go!” 


The next pulse occurred just as we left town. A man near the back of the 
group exploded, just like that. His name had been Conrad E, and he’d had 
a Russian accent. He’d been a level-12 Ranger. 

“What the hell was that?” I asked as I ran. Ahead, three emu-like mobs 
appeared, screeching. They were called Ruin Flockers. Donut hit two of 
them with Magic Missile as another mage hit the third with a lightning 


burst. That third ostrich didn’t die, but hit the ground. I stomped its neck as 
we continued running. 

“His quiver. All of his arrows blew up, I think,” Katia said. “He’d put 
his bow away, but he’d forgotten about his arrows.” 

“Donut,” I said. “I don’t like this. I think you should take it off.” 

Donut remained on my shoulder, despite being faster than me. Behind, 
someone shouted about another mob. “Leave it!” I yelled. 

“PII lose five intelligence!” Donut whined. “And my Sepsis debuff. And 
I really like it.” 

“These bursts are attacking our magical gear,” I said. 

“But if I lose it, somebody else will get it and put it on. We’ll have to 
fight them. I don’t want to hurt a person.” 

“I know,” I said. I didn’t want that either. I didn’t add that only an idiot 
would actually put the thing on after reading the description. Anybody still 
around at this point would know better, so I wasn’t too worried about that 
anymore. I leaped over a pile of rubble. We were coming up on ten minutes. 
A pair of dead crawlers appeared on my map, surrounded by the red dots of 
Street Urchins. We didn’t have time to investigate. 

Before, I’d never been the fastest runner. I had good endurance, more so 
than a lot of the guys who only trained on weights, but I’d never been a 
speed guy. I’d always hated jogging, but I played a lot of basketball. Not 
many team sports trained cardio like basketball, except maybe tennis or 
soccer. And probably jai-alai, too. 

Now, I ran through the city with ease, moving much, much faster than 
I’d ever been able to before. My breaths came in ragged gasps, but my body 
didn’t slow down. It was an odd, disconcerting feeling. If we survived this, 
I really needed to push myself more physically, to test my limits. My brain 
still thought of myself as a normal human. As a group, even the slowest 
amongst us moved faster than a squad of Olympians ever could’ve. I 
recalled my poor, long-lost chopper. It wouldn’t have done well on this 
level, not with all the debris in the streets. 

“Well, I’m not taking it off,” Donut said. 

“That dude blew up, Donut,” I said. To our left, a group of four more 
crawlers appeared. They merged with us. 

“Are we sure it’s there?” one of them, a shark-headed creature, called. 

“It’s there!” another yelled back. “I can see it on my map already.” 


I turned my attention back to Donut. The next burst was due at any 
moment. They weren’t coming at exact five-minute intervals. “What’s 
going to happen if you permanently lose five intelligence, and then you lose 
the tiara anyway? Then yov’ll be down ten instead of five.” 

“But it was my first item,” she said. 

“Tt also might catch your damn head on fire. Besides, remember the 
description? You’ll still be an official princess.” 

“Donut, he’s right. You better take it off,” Katia said. 

“Oh, all right,” Donut grumbled. 

The Sepsis Crown atop her head crumbled into dust, disappearing like 
ash. 

“Hey!” Donut yelled. To my left, one of the newcomers also cried out. 
His pants vanished. “It disappeared before I could remove it!” 

The second pulse had apparently activated all magical weapons. This 
third one had destroyed any still-equipped armor. 

The fourth pulse ripped through the party just as we pulled up to the 
small, decrepit building. We’d run the distance in record time. 

Chaos tore through the group. A lightning bolt ripped through the party, 
glancing off a human, who tumbled and hit the ground, almost dead. 
Another person simply teleported away. Katia’s whole body glowed, and 
she leaped forward, clipping me in the process and throwing me down. She 
ran directly into the wall, and blasted through it like the Kool-Aid Man. I 
bounced off the floor, crying out. Donut hissed and leaped away. I felt my 
arm break in that moment Katia slammed into me, but it was healed by the 
time I finished rolling. 

You have been poisoned! 

It took me a long moment to figure out what the hell had just happened. 
Normally, I was immune to poison, but that came from my Nightgaunt 
Cloak. Donut had also been poisoned, but she was also now immune thanks 
to her Former Child Actor class. 

The first two items in everyone’s hotlist had activated themselves on 
their own. So much for items in our inventory being safe. For both me and 
Donut, it was a healing potion and then a mana potion. We’d both ingested 
the second potion before the potion timer ended, inflicting us both with 
potion sickness. I knew Katia had an active skill called Rush, something she 
could only do once a day, and that’s what’d happened to her. 


The poison effect kicked me in the stomach, doubling me over. Once the 
fifteen seconds passed, I took an antidote potion and surveyed the crowd. 
We’d all stopped dead in the street outside the building. Katia returned, a 
dazed look in her eyes. Her nose had been knocked completely sideways 
and was now just below her ear. She didn’t seem to have noticed. 

“That really hurt,” she said. 

Nobody had been killed, but we didn’t know what happened to the guy 
who’d teleported away. I leaned over the human who’d been cooked with 
the Lightning spell. He was unconscious. I poured a healing potion into his 
mouth. This was one of the newcomers who’d met us as we’d run here. The 
Asian man’s eyes fluttered then snapped open. 

“Please get your dick out of my face,” he said. I grinned and backed 
away. 

I looked over my shoulder, and through the hole in the wall Katia had 
created, I could see it. I glanced at the timers up in the corner of my vision. 
We had three minutes before the big detonation. 

We also had two days and 18 hours left before this floor would collapse. 

A familiar face appeared, jogging up with a new group. Daniel Bautista. 

“I told you it was here,” he said, indicating the stairwell down to the 
fourth level. 

I clapped him on the shoulder. The man nodded and turned toward the 
stairwell, disappearing down to the fourth floor. 

We didn’t have a choice. I was going to just send everyone without 
Desperado Club access to the stairwell, but with the club closed off, it was 
either this or death. 

“Go,” I said. “Everybody down the stairs.” 

We watched as the procession of people lined up and rushed down the 
hole. 

Carl: Mordecai, are you in your room? 

Mordecai: I’m safe. 

Carl: What’s going to happen to us when we go down early? Or 
you? 

Mordecai: I am going to sit here and twiddle my thumbs for three 
days. You guys won’t notice a time difference. Pll see you on the other 
side. Also, I just peeked out the door. The NPCs are all safe, all that I 
can see. Nobody is on the street except the guards, who reactivated with 
that second burst. They all only have a single life point. It’s too bad 


you’re not here, otherwise Pd have you kill as many as you can. It 
wouldn’t be as much experience when you’re just finishing them off, 
but it would still be quite a bit. 

I glanced over at Katia, who stood at the entrance to the stairwell, 
waiting for us. 

Carl: Are there any guards still in the warehouse? 

Mordecai: I don’t know. Probably a few. They’re still moving out to 
their regular positions. I’m not going over there to look. Now get your 
asses into that stairwell. 

Carl: Okay. Oh, and Mordecai? 

Mordecai: What? 

Carl: Congratulations. 

He didn’t answer. Donut looked up at me, eyes wide. “That’s right,” she 
said. “He’s free now, isn’t he? We make it to the fourth floor, and he gets to 
go home once the dungeon is over.” 

“That’s right,” I said. I thought of Remex, who was also about to finish 
his “duty.” I wondered how long he’d been stuck here. I remembered what 
Donut had said when she learned what he really was. Carl, I don’t want to 
become an NPC. 

And she’d said something else, too. It was heartbreaking, when you 
thought about it. I know she’s dead. 

I thought of everyone we’d met on this floor, of the crawlers and NPCs 
we’d come across. We’d been on the floor less than a week, but it felt like a 
millennium. I thought of Signet the half-naiad. Of Quint the possum-faced 
pharmacist. Pustule the hobgoblin explosives dealer. I thought of poor 
GumGum the orc. Of Miss Quill. Of little Ricky Joe, the one-armed, child 
dwarf. I wondered if his mom ever had her baby. 

The three of us turned toward the stairwell. Donut pulled Mongo out of 
his cage, and the dinosaur grunted with annoyance for being stuck so long. 

We proceeded down the stairs. I knew from the last time, the floor 
ended the moment we pulled on the handle. The door at the bottom of the 
Stairs was the same as always, with the oversized kua-tin carving, making 
them look bigger and more menacing than they really were. 

You’re not going to break me. Fuck you all. 

I examined its properties. 

Entrance to the fourth floor. 

This is where the real fun begins. 


Mind the gap. 

“What does that mean?” I asked. 

We had 100 seconds left. 

“Katia,” I said. “Pull out that detonator I gave you earlier. It has a ten 
second delay. Wait until the timer is at about 15 seconds and push it. Then 
we'll go in before it goes off.” 

“Why?” she asked, pulling the pencil-like detonator out. The thing had a 
range of ten kilometers, so we were more than close enough. “Won’t that 
make the bomb go off faster?” 

“Yes, but only by a couple seconds. If people aren’t safe by now, they’re 
already dead. I doubt it’s going to work, since the detonators are magical. 
They probably got ruined in that first burst. But if it does, I set the 
dynamite. I let Donut smush a few of the detonator blobs onto the wall. If 
we get any experience for it, we’ ll all share in the spoils.” 

She shrugged. Just as the timer hit twenty seconds, she pressed the 
button. 

We turned to open the door. 

“Hey, Carl,” said Donut, just as we started to dissolve away. “You 
probably should have put your pants back on when we still could get into 
our inventory, don’t you think? Aren’t we going straight to Odette’s show?” 
She cackled with laughter. 

I looked down at the cat, horrified. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. 


OceanofPDF:com 


EPILOGUE 


“TT LOOKS LIKE WE NOW HAVE DEFINITIVE PROOF THAT SEX TAPE WITH THE 
late Maestro was indeed a snick,” Odette mused. The audience roared. 
Donut was on her back, howling with laughter as my cheeks burned. 

I never considered myself a shy person. I’d been wandering the 
dungeon wearing nothing but boxers for weeks now. But the sight of myself 
up on the screen, running full tilt through the Over City with nothing but a 
one-armed leather jacket and my nuts dangling free filled me with a strange, 
almost primal sense of vulnerability. I don’t know how nudists ever got 
used to it. 

The interview was going well. So far, we’d received nothing but softball 
questions. I knew that’d soon change. It was still early. 

All four of us—Me, Donut, Mongo, and Katia—had gone through the 
door and immediately appeared in the green room. There was a slight, odd 
pop in my brain, similar to the one I’d experienced the very first time I 
entered the dungeon, but that was it. There was no other sense that two and 
a half days had passed. 

“Whoa,” Katia said, spinning in circles at the sight of the green room. 
She stopped, putting her hands out to steady herself. “Are we on a boat?” 

I didn’t answer her. I only stared. She had changed to a stunning, short- 
haired woman. Black-haired, probably in her mid-thirties, pale with light, 
wide-set eyes that sat at an odd angle on her face. 

“Katia,” Donut said, “You’re getting really good at the sculpting thing. 
Plus I like you better with black hair. It gives you more poise.” 

She reached up and touched her features, then relaxed. “This is the real 
me, Donut.” 


As Donut explained to her where we were, I proceeded to the bathroom 
to build myself a loincloth made of toilet paper. My hands shook as I 
wrapped the paper around my legs. 

Holy shit, I thought. Our last few hours on the third floor had gone by 
quickly and unexpectedly. And now that I had a moment to breathe, my 
heart couldn’t stop pounding. I found myself sitting on the bathroom floor, 
my hand to my chest. How is this real? How is this my life? 

I knew this respite would be short-lived. After we were done here, we’d 
move onto the fourth floor, and it would start all over again. 

“Carl, hurry up, I gotta wee!” Donut said, barging into the bathroom. 
She stopped short. Her tail drooped at the sight of me there on the floor. A 
look of concern flashed across her cat face. She didn’t say anything for a 
few seconds. “You better get back out there. Katia and Mongo are eating all 
the human snacks. Lexis is in there. She said Katia is going to be on the 
show, too, but only at the end of the interview. She said it’s a fourth-floor 
special, and we’re going live just before the floor opens up.” 

“Come here, Donut,” I said. 

She immediately jumped onto my lap, butting her head against my 
chest. “Carl, are you okay?” 

“T’ll be fine,” I said. I gave her head a quick pat. It was strange without 
her tiara. “What about you? We thought we were going to die, and then we 
werent, and it’s been non-stop since.” 

“You need to sleep,” she said, also deflecting the question. “Let’s do the 
interview and find a saferoom and rest. Okay?” 

“Okay,” I said, sitting up. I put my arms out, revealing my toilet paper 
loincloth. “So? What do you think?” 

“Are you asking me to lie, Carl?” 

“Yes, I am,” 

Thirty minutes later, I sat on the couch in my ridiculous makeshift 
loincloth as we watched our last moments on the third floor play out on the 
screen. 

Odette leaned back. “Before I show you what happened next, I want to 
bring out the newest member of the Royal Court of Princess Donut. 
Everyone say hello to Katia. And welcome back to the show, Mongo!” 

Katia sat next to me on the couch while Mongo padded out and 
squawked at the virtual crowd, who screamed enthusiastically at the 


velociraptor. He curled up on the floor in front of Donut. Despite being in 
his box most of the night, even he seemed exhausted. 

After a few initial questions to Katia, which she answered with deer-in- 
the-headlights, one-word responses, Odette sighed and turned back to me. 

“So, guys,” she said. “You were only gone for two days, but a lot can 
happen in two days. Isn’t that right?” The audience laughed, almost 
nervously, which made me nervous. “So, what do you think happened after 
you hit that detonator?” 

I shrugged. “I was hoping for an explosion at the warehouse, but I know 
the hobgoblin pus is a magical detonator, so I suspect maybe it was fried 
and nothing happened.” 

She clapped, nodding her bug head vigorously. “Smart, smart boy.” 

The audience had grown dead quiet. An electric feeling of apprehension 
washed over me. Uh-oh. What is this? 

“Believe it or not, you’re supposed to be dead. You’re right. Hobgoblin 
pus is a magical trigger. By all accounts, it should have been rendered inert 
by the initial precursor burst. And if by chance it hadn’t, that second burst, 
which activated all magical weapons, should have set it off, which 
would’ve exploded the dynamite, which would have killed Remex the 
Grand, triggering that final, cataclysmic explosion.” 

Remex the Grand? “But that didn’t happen,” I said. 

“No,” she agreed. “It did not. The Borant Corporation immediately filed 
an appeal against the AI’s decision to rule the detonator exempt from both 
of those blasts. Just before you came on today, Borant was overruled by a 
Syndicate court. In addition, and even more importantly, the court ruled the 
achievements you received as a result of the explosion are also just, and the 
rewards must be paid.” 

“Achievements?” Donut asked, perking up. “Rewards?” 

“But,” Odette continued, “per Syndicate rules, the host is allowed a 
single veto each season. This is important. It’s almost always used to throw 
an appeal in their favor on the tenth or deeper floors. It has never been used 
this early. And Borant was forced to use their free veto on the prize 
decision, which reversed the ruling. So, unfortunately for you guys, you 
won’t be receiving what you should. Still, everybody saw what happened. 
Everybody saw what you were rewarded. Sadly, you won’t be getting it.” 

“What?” Donut said. “I don’t understand. What are we not getting?” 


“Okay, first let’s watch what really happened after Katia pressed that 
button.” 

The screen changed to a view of a news-like program I’d never seen 
before. It was a news desk setup, similar to the recap show, but with an 
alien-like Soother host. 

The Soother spoke with the practiced ease of a seasoned newscaster. 
“And while the tragic, controversial tale of Remex the Grand finally comes 
to an end, a new controversy has erupted in Borant’s Dungeon Crawler 
World. A last-minute decision by a trio of trapped crawlers ended in an 
unexpected result. A result with potentially disastrous, real-life 
consequences for Borant. Watch this.” 

I bristled at the newscaster’s use of “real-life.” The screen showed Katia 
pressing the button. The scene switched to the view of the warehouse, and 
of the pus detonating. Multiple Swordsmen guards, all with their health in 
the very deep red, tumbled to the ground. The view switched to the second 
floor, to the pitiful, curled up form of Remex hiding in the corner. He’d 
become nothing but a silhouette of pulsing yellow. In the two seconds 
before that final explosion, the light disappeared. He cried out in pain just 
as he was overwhelmed with the blast from the dynamite. 

The newscaster continued. “A controlled blast at the last second, which 
caused a mass soul crystal release from the fallen swordsmen, greatly 
tempered the resulting wild magic explosion, causing it to be much less 
destructive than originally intended. In the end, thousands of NPCs and 
several dozen crawler lives were potentially saved by the action.” 

I groaned. “Does that mean we didn’t have to go down the stairs?” 

“Nope,” Odette said. She waved her hand, and the screen paused. She 
looked at us, feigning sympathy. “Do you know how many Celestial prize 
boxes have been given out in the history of Dungeon Crawler World?” 

Donut leaped to her feet. Mongo also jumped up, tail waving in 
excitement. 

“Oh my god, shut up, Odette,” Donut said, eyes huge. “Are you saying 
we're getting screwed out of a Celestial box?” She turned to the audience. 
“This is an outrage!” 

Odette nodded. “The answer is 2,145. That’s how many Celestial boxes 
of any kind have been given out. I myself was the recipient of three. The 
record to a single crawler is four. And before this crawl, the most that have 
ever been given out in a single season is 18. That was a naga season, long, 


long ago. You might not be aware of this, but the host company is required 
to pay taxes to the Syndicate on each and every non-sponsored box given 
out. They are given a handful of free Celestials each season, but anything 
above that comes with a pretty hefty bill for the showrunners. And each one 
is more expensive than the last. That’s usually offset by a million other line 
items that flow into the production. For example, we pay an exorbitant 
amount to get your butts in that chair.” 

“As you should,” Donut said, her voice still filled with anger. The 
audience laughed. 

“Tt has been over 250 cycles since the Blood Sultanate of the Naga ran 
the first Crawl to actually lose money, and they are still recovering from it. 
They haven’t run a season since then. They only have a place in Faction 
Wars because they purchased a permanent spot early on.” 

“For just 18 boxes?” I said. “That seems over the top.” 

“That season was cursed for multiple reasons, but we don’t need to get 
into that. Anyway, the game is supposed to be difficult. Legendary boxes 
are handed out like candy because they’re cheap, but Celestial boxes are an 
order of magnitude better. The prize in a single box can render an 
underperforming crawler almost immortal, practically unbeatable until they 
reach the tenth floor. If they capriciously hand them out, more crawlers will 
make it to the deeper levels, and the showrunners can drag the season out 
and earn much more money. So the Syndicate places a heavy premium on 
such items. And while the AI usually chooses the prizes, the writers running 
the show are responsible for creating the circumstances in which the boxes 
are earned. It’s a careful balance.” 

I was trying really hard not to break the golden rule, which was Thou 
shalt not talk shit about Borant. I was finding it very difficult. 

“Its just three boxes,” Donut grumbled. “I don’t see why they had to 
waste their stupid veto on keeping me, Carl, and Katia from getting an 
awesome prize.” 

Odette cocked her head to the side. “Maybe I should show you the rest 
of that news report.” She waved her hand, and the frozen scene resumed. It 
now showed an Asian, half-elf crawler dragging himself into a saferoom 
after obviously surviving the magical blast that had been meant to kill him. 
He appeared gravely injured, likely from his own equipment turning on 
him. The show labeled him as the level 15 crawler Quan Ch, a class called 


an Imperial Security Trooper. This was the same guy who’d called us 
assholes in the chat. 

“He survived,” Donut said. “I’m glad. I felt kind of bad about what I 
did.” 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

“Oh, I blocked him from the chat after he called us assholes,” said 
Donut. “You can’t let people in your chatrooms get out of control, Carl. You 
need to rule with an iron paw.” 

The newscast continued as I looked incredulously at Donut. “As a result 
of surviving the event quest, all crawlers in the initial blast zone were 
promised a Platinum Quest Box. But as you’re about to see, the survivors 
received something a little better than that.” 

We all watched as Quan Ch pulled up his achievements. 

New achievement! Bandit! 

Screw Hadji. Hadji was a little bitch, anyway. You have completed a 
quest, but it was completed in a way unusual enough to trigger the 
Bandit Achievement! Unlike the real Bandit, who is usually 
instrumental in helping Jonny Quest complete his tasks, you didn’t 
actually do anything to deserve this prize. But that’s okay because 
you’re still getting it. This is one of the rare achievements that can be 
rewarded more than once. 

Reward: Your Platinum Quest box has been upgraded two times to 
a Celestial Quest Box! 

The scene showed him reverently opening the box to receive what 
looked like a glowing robe. The show didn’t give the robe’s description, but 
the moment Quan put it on, he floated off the ground. Magical, wisp-like 
wings grew from the back of his body. His left hand glowed blue. 

The newscaster continued. “An incredible total of 83 Celestial boxes 
were rewarded as a result of the quest getting a rare double upgrade. Borant 
immediately appealed, but not before that one box was opened, thus putting 
Borant on the hook for that one. The Syndicate court has convened an 
emergency session to determine if the beleaguered company will have to 
pay for the remaining 82 boxes. If so, it is certain there will be no financial 
recovery for the once-mighty Borant system.” 

“So that jerk got a free box for our hard work!” Donut cried. “Are you 
kidding me? And we don’t get anything? Are we still getting a Platinum 
box?” 


“T’m afraid not,” Odette said. “Their veto negated all prizes. Nobody is 
receiving a loot box from that quest except that one crawler. That same 
night, they issued a patch that disabled both the Hadji and Bandit upgrade 
achievements.” 

I laughed. Everybody turned to look at me. 

“Tt’s not funny, Carl,” Donut said. She was not acting. The cat trembled 
with rage. 

“Why is that so amusing to you, Carl?” Odette asked. 

I shrugged. “It doesn’t matter what we do. How hard we work. We keep 
getting screwed. Losing out sucks, but I’ve come to expect it. All that 
matters is getting stronger, getting more experience. We messed that up by 
getting involved in quests when we should be grinding. We’re not going to 
make that mistake again. From now on, it’s all about progression and 
training.” 

Odette replied, “You probably didn’t miss out on as much experience as 
you think. That magical burst was muted, but it was still big. You may not 
have received prizes or experience from the quest, but you still got credit 
for the actual explosion. Because you technically caused it, your team 
received a handful of experience for every mob that it killed, including all 
those swordsmen guards.” 

She waved her hand, and our stats and level appeared over our heads. 
The audience gasped, and then broke out into applause. 

Donut had risen seven levels, from 19 to 26. I had risen six, from 21 to 
27. The last time I’d set foot in a safe room, I’d been level 19. That meant I 
had 24 stat points to distribute. 

And then there was Katia. 

She’d leaped 12 levels. She’d gone from nine to 21. 

Odette turned to the audience. “As I promised you guys at the start of 
the show, I have exclusive, breaking news to share. The fourth floor will be 
opening up in less than an hour, but I have received a tentative draft of the 
leaderboard. Would you like to see it?” 

“Yes! Yes, we would,” Donut said, hopping up and down. All 
semblance of anger—and her usual, posh television persona—had fled. The 
crowd roared. 

“Bear in mind, this won’t be official until the next recap episode, and as 
you all know, things can change quickly in the dungeon, so this might shift. 
But I can reveal this is the current working copy. Nobody knows the exact 


formula for the leaderboard. It’s a mix of views, favorites, levels, and 
money earned. But the list usually matches pretty well with the most 
popular players in the game. Are you ready?” 

“Carl,” Donut said, shaking with excitement. “We’re going to be on it. I 
just know it!” 

Odette waved her hand, and the top-10 list appeared. 


Current Leaderboard: 


1. Lucia Mar — Lajabless — Black Inquisitor General — Level 29 
— 1,000,000 

2. Hekla — Amazonian — Shieldmaiden — Level 28 — 500,000 

3. Prepotente — Caprid — Forsaken Aerialist — Level 27 — 
400,000 

4. Florin — Crocodilian — Shotgun Messenger — Level 24 — 
300,000 

5. Miriam Dom — Human — Shepherd — Level 27 — 200,000 

6. Carl — Primal — Compensated Anarchist — Level 27 — 
100,000 

7. Donut — Cat — Former Child Actor — Level 26 — 100,000 

8. Ifechi — Human — Physicker — Level 18 — 100,000 

9. Li Jun — Human — Street Monk — Level 25 — 100,000 

10. Elle McGib — Frost Maiden — Blizzardmancer — Level 13 
— 100,000 


Donut squealed with delight. “Carl, we’re in the top ten! And Hekla is 
number two!” She turned to the audience. “I love her. She demonstrates 
such dignity. Such grace. I can’t believe that ugly Lucia Mar is number one. 
Isn’t she just awful?” The audience laughed. 

“Who is Prepotente?” I asked, reading down the list. I knew Florin was 
the crocodile-headed dude with the shotgun. Miriam Dom was the goat 
lady. I didn’t know Ifechi. Li Jun was the Chinese guy from the Maestro’s 
show, the one I’d helped save from the troglodytes and brindle grubs. I was 
happy to see him on the list. I hoped Zhang and the others in his group were 
doing well, too. 


“Carl, is that who I think it is?” Donut asked, pointing at the final name. 

I nodded. Holy shit. Wheelchair-bound, dementia-suffering Mrs. 
McGibbons, one of the residents of the Meadow Lark Adult Care 
Community, was on the list. She was only level 13, having started the third 
floor as a level one. How in the hell had that happened? I hadn’t talked to 
Brandon in several days. 

“That’s our show, folks! Tomorrow we will have an engineer from 
Borant on to discuss the ins and outs of this new, exciting level. I don’t yet 
know what it is, but rumor has it we’ll see something that’s never been 
attempted before. We’ll also have a pair of crawler special guests. They’re 
not on the top ten list, but these up-and-comers are quickly becoming new 
favorites. Here’s a hint: they’re twins!” The crowd roared. 

The audience faded away. “I really need to talk to you guys, but I only 
have a few minutes,” Odette said. She didn’t pull off her mask like she 
usually did. “I’m going on my own interview in five, on a different 
program. We’ll be live-commenting on the opening of the floor. I’m going 
to get flak for not asking you about the assassination attempt, but Borant 
said it was off-limits. And Mordecai has reiterated that point several times.” 

“Do you just, like, watch him all day?” Donut asked. 

“I do,” Odette said, as if that was a perfectly normal thing to say. “As 
much as I can. This next floor is going to be especially dangerous.” She 
looked at me. “Be careful with that gauntlet. It has the power to summon 
the war god Grull if you use it against any of his celebrants. They’ll start 
appearing on this floor. And King Rust has apparently just spent a lot of 
money on a deity sponsorship. The Skull Empire doesn’t usually purchase 
those, so it might be an attempt to get to you. I don’t know which god 
they’ve sponsored, but if I was still a gambler, I’d bet on Grull.” 

“Can the god get to us if I don’t accidentally summon him?” 

“Probably not. Not on this floor. Ask Mordecai how that all works.” She 
paused. “He has a lot of experience in the subject, unfortunately.” 

Lexis entered the room. “Katia, dear,” the production assistant said. 
“Can you follow me, please? I need to show you the return procedures. 
Donut, you can assist if you’d like.” 

“Uh, sure,” Katia said, getting up and leaving the room. 

Donut paused, looking between me and Odette. It was obvious Odette 
wanted to talk to me alone. I moved my head, indicating for her to leave. 
She looked as if she was about to object, but then she thought better of it. 


“Bye, Odette,” she said as she and Mongo followed Katia. 

“I don’t know what the next floor’s theme is,” Odette said, watching 
them leave. “But based on what I’m hearing, momentum-based crawlers 
will have a strong advantage, so keep her around if you can. But I called her 
out of the room because I wanted to warn you.” 

“About Katia?” I said. “She seems harmless. And Mordecai really likes 

her.” 
“I don’t think she’s in on it. Not willingly. I’m talking about Hekla. 
She’s not evil. Or psychotic like Lucia Mar. However, she is very practical. 
And cunning. She does not have your sense of justice, which makes her 
dangerous. I’ve watched her some, and she’s becoming obsessed with the 
idea of getting Donut to join her gang.” 

“Hekla seems great, but I don’t think we’d work well together. I can 
only handle one huge personality at a time, and Donut fits in that slot pretty 
well.” 

“Based on her conversations with her now-former guide, I don’t think 
she wants you in the party anyway. She thinks you’re unstable. But she 
knows about Mordecai, thanks to Katia, and since Mordecai is part of 
Donut’s package deal, she wants Donut in the party so she can have access 
to a permanent manager.” 

“I don’t think Donut would ever leave me,” I said, looking at the door. 

“No, I don’t either. Not as long as you’re still alive.” 

I felt a chill rush through me. 

“But again, I don’t believe Katia is in on it. And she likes you. I can 
tell.” 

“Why are you telling me this, Odette?” I asked. 

She chuckled. “I’m glad you’re still following my first piece of advice. I 
lied earlier when I said I was paying an exorbitant amount to get you two on 
the show. When I bought your rights, it was very early, and you were very 
cheap. I paid less for the entire season of interviews than one pays to get 
you two on right now. If you die and Donut joins Brynhild’s Daughters, my 
contract is voided. You two are still my highest-rated guests. In fact, I think 
that top-ten list is bunk. You two should be numbers two and three.” 

The top 10 list still floated there in the middle of the room. 

“Odette,” I asked, reading the list again. “What are those numbers at the 
end of each name? That million and 100,000?” 


“That’s just the bounty,” she said. “It’s how much other crawlers get if 
they kill you. Now I must leave. Be careful out there. PII see you after the 
next floor collapse.” 

Odette faded away, leaving me alone, bobbing slowly up and down with 
the waves. 

“Fuck,” I said to the empty room. 


The End 


OceanofPDF.com 


IT’S THAT TIME AGAIN. 


Alas, the book is done. But the story is not over yet! 

Book II, The Dungeon Anarchist’s Cookbook is already written and 
ready to go. It will release in April of 2021. It has fights and intrigue, old 
friends and new friends. 100% less clowns, unfortunately. But it has 100% 
more ManOwakR-obsessed mantaurs. Hail and Kill! 

This is where I beg of you to please, please do me a solid and leave a 
review on Amazon. We live and die by our reviews. It is important. Toby 
eats a lot, and he’ll eat me if I can’t afford to feed him. 

I will reiterate my don’t-tell-Amazon-or-my-wife offer from the last 
book. If you leave a review, I will sire any and all children you wish to 
have. I am, as of this moment, now the proud father-to-be of over 200 
children thanks to book one’s reviews. You know you want in on the action! 
Who doesn’t want to be part of a giant family? So please leave a review! 

See you in April, and Mind the Gap. 


OceanofPDF.com 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Matt Dinniman is a writer and artist from Gig Harbor, WA. When he isn’t attending cat shows, 
wrangling dogs, feeding turtles, playing bass in a punk/metal band, or writing books that make guys 
named Kyle threaten to kill his family because he called a goblin an incel, he designs cat-themed 
greeting cards and decorations. If you’ve ever walked into a Target or an IKEA or a Home Goods, 
looked at the weird wall art they have for sale there, and thought to yourself, who buys this crap? The 
answer is, “Not nearly as many people as Matt would like.” So please buy all his books. (Or his art!) 


fe AC) 


OceanofPDE:com 


MAILING LIST! PATREON! 


Join the Matt Dinniman mailing list and get the dope on new releases and 
more! Join up here! 


If you’re feeling especially saucy, you can join the Matt Dinniman Patreon 
and read advance chapters and whole books before they come out on 
Amazon. 


www.patreon.com/dinniman 


OceanofPDE:.com 


ALSO BY MATT DINNIMAN 


Kaiju: Battlefield Surgeon (Horror LitRPG!) 
Dominion of Blades Series (LitRPG!) 
The Shivered Sky Series (Angels vs demons!) 
The Grinding (A horror novel!) 


Trailer Park Fairy Tales (Short stories! One of them even won a fancy award!) 


OceanofPDF:com 


THE PAGE WHERE WE TOUT FACEBOOK GROUPS SO THEY LET US 
SPAM THEM ABOUT THIS BOOK 


Over on Facebook, if you want to talk about Gamelit. I mean if you really 
want to talk about Gamelit, check out the Gamelit Society! 


Wait, there’s more! There’s the super-awesome extreme LitRPG Books 
Group! 


OceanofPDE:com 


ONE MORE! 


Check out one of the OG LitRPG forums over on Facebook. It’s https:// 
www.facebook.com/groups/LitRPGGroup 


OceanofPDE.com 


