MAT Sn 


AN 


DUNGEON CRAWLER CARL 


OceanofPDE:.com 


MATT DINNIMAN 


OceanofPDE:.com 


DANDY HOUSE 


OceanofPDE:.com 


Copyright © 2020 by Matt Dinniman 
All rights reserved. 


No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, 
including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, 
except for the use of brief quotations in a book review. No incel goblins or show cats were harmed in 
the production of this book. 


EDITED By Cheryl Dyson 
http://www.cheryldyson.com 

COVER ILLUSTRATION BY Elartwyne Estole 
https://www.artstation.com/elartestole 
Cover DESIGN By Toby Dinniman 
https://www.collageorama.com 

INTERIOR ILLUSTRATIONS BY Erik Wilson 


http://www.erikwilsonartgallery.com/ 


OceanofPDE:.com 


Thanks to all of my readers, especially those who have stuck with me 
through all the years. And I would like to toss out an extra-special thanks to 
all my Donut Holes over on Patreon. 

Especially: 

T B, THE Human, R1InoZ, MIKE DIRKS, MAcrRonomicon, NAH, DREW 
GILMOUR, ZORATHIS, JESSE TYNER, ATTONRANDEN, WHALE, SIMONE 
BERNTSEN, JACK BARRETT, T1mMoTHY D THEIS, JAMIE WAHLS, DEREK ALLEN, 
ERIC LEE, JAMES VAN, AUSTIN GIBBS, 

& 

Your Mom. 


OceanofPDE:com 


Rome will exist as long as the Coliseum does; when the Coliseum 
falls, so will Rome; when Rome falls, so will the world. 


- THE VENERABLE BEDE 


OceanofPDF.com 


THE TRANSFORMATION OCCURRED AT APPROXIMATELY 2:23 AM, PACIFIC 
Standard Time. As far as I could tell, anyone who was indoors when it 
happened died instantly. If you had any sort of roof over you, you were 
dead. That included people in cars, airplanes, subways. Even tents and 
cardboard boxes. Hell, probably umbrellas, too. Though I’m not so sure 
about that one. 

I’m not gonna lie. You guys who were inside, probably warm and asleep 
and dreaming about some random bullshit? I’m jealous. You’re the lucky 
ones. You were just gone. Splattered into dust during the transformation. 

It was a Tuesday, and the calendar had just ticked over to January 3rd. A 
terrible winter storm had descended on North America, and half the country 
was buried in snow and ice. In Seattle we didn’t have too much snow that 
night. But it was well below zero, which was unusually cold, even for 
January. 

I’m sure in other parts of the world where it was warmer and not in the 
middle of the night, many more people survived. Many more. 

I also bet most of them were probably wearing more clothes than I was 
at the time of the incident. And those assholes were smart enough not to go 
into the light. 

Me, I didn’t have a choice. Like I said, it was below freezing. I was 
outside. And I was wearing boxers, a leather jacket, and a pair of pink Crocs 
sandals that barely fit me. 

I was also holding a crying, scratching, squirming, and spitting cat 
named Princess Donut the Queen Anne Chonk. She was a tortoiseshell, 


Persian cat worth more than I made in a year. My ex-girlfriend called her 
Princess Donut for short. I just stuck with Donut. 

So let me back up about ten minutes. I won’t bore you with too much 
backstory, but some of these details may be important. 

My name is Carl. I am twenty-seven years old. After a stint in the US 
Coast Guard, I ended up working as a marine tech, fixing electrical systems 
for rich assholes and their party boats. I, up until a few days before this 
started, lived with my girlfriend in our apartment in Seattle. 

Her name was Beatrice. Bea. She went to the Bahamas for a New Year’s 
thing with a bunch of friends. She didn’t tell me her ex-boyfriend went 
along with her on the trip. I figured it out pretty quick when I saw the 
picture of her sitting on his lap on Instagram. 

I don’t like drama, and I don’t deal well with it. Whether she was 
actually cheating on me or not, it didn’t matter so much. She’d lied. So I 
called her up, and I told her we were done. I promised I’d have all her stuff 
ready for her to go when she got back. No drama. No fuss. But we were 
done. 

She’d asked her parents to come get the cat, but they lived on the other 
side of the Cascades, and nobody was getting through any of the passes 
with this weather. So I promised I’d look after her until Beatrice got back. 

So, let me tell you about Donut the cat. Like I said, she’s one of those 
fluffy, flat-faced cats that look like they need to be sitting on the lap of a 
Bond villain. Bea and I shared a two-bedroom apartment, and one of those 
rooms was dedicated to the cat if that tells you anything. More specifically, 
the room was devoted to Donut’s Best-in-Show ribbons, her Best-in-Breed 
ribbons, and the countless trophies and framed photographs of her sitting on 
a table, looking all fuzzy and pissed off while Bea and a judge stood behind 
her. Bea probably had fifty of the pictures. She’d won a mess of ribbons and 
trophies and photographs pretty much every time Beatrice took Donut to an 
event. And Bea took that damn cat to a show almost every weekend. 

Her whole family was into raising and showing Persian cats. Me, I 
didn’t really know much about that whole cat show world. I didn’t want to 
get too involved. Like I said, I don’t do drama. 

And let me tell you something about cat people. More specifically, cat 
show people. 

Actually, never mind. Fuck those guys. All that’s important is Bea and 
Donut were a part of this whole world I didn’t want anything to do with. 


I never considered myself a big fan of cats. But, if we’re being truthful 
here, I liked Donut. That cat did not give two shits about anybody or 
anything, and I could respect that. If Donut wanted to sit on my lap while I 
was blasting away on Playstation, then she sat on my damn lap. If I tried to 
pick her up, she hissed and scratched and jumped right back up there. And 
then she looked at me with a squished face that said, what’re you gonna do 
about it? 

Pd been tempted, more than once, to throttle the thing. But I’m not an 
asshole. Plus, I could respect the little monster’s tenacity. Some of my 
buddies would give me crap about it, me spending all this time with a fuzzy 
cat that was probably worth more than I would make in a year, but I 
enjoyed it. I enjoyed having that ball of fuzz sitting in my lap. 

One of Beatrice’s ironclad, this-is-not-negotiable rules was no smoking 
in the apartment. So after our fight and breakup, I’d made a point of 
smoking as much as I could. I know, immature. But it was freezing outside. 
Donut didn’t seem to like the smoke too much, and the smell clung to her 
hair. So, as a compromise, I would crack the window when I smoked. 

So when I woke up at about two A.M., having been startled awake by a 
dream, I decided I needed a smoke. I pulled out my pack, cracked the 
window, and I lit a cigarette. 

Donut, who had been sleeping right next to me on the bed, decided at 
that very moment that she wanted to—for the first time in her feline life— 
go outside and explore. She jumped up on my shoulder, and she leaped out 
the second-story window onto the tree outside my apartment. Just like that. 
Pd had that window open dozens of times over the past year, and she’d 
never even given the window a second glance. But tonight, on the coldest 
night of the year, the furry asshole decided to Lewis and Clark her way out 
of the apartment. 

She scampered down the tree, sniffed at the sidewalk a few times, and 
then promptly realized it was cold as fuck. Her adventure over as quickly as 
it began, she rushed back up the tree and stared at me over the five feet 
from the window to the branch. The adventure all drained out of her, Donut 
decided not to risk jumping back inside. So instead, she decided to start 
howling at the top of her lungs. 

I spent the next several minutes cursing at the cat, trying to coax her 
back inside. I opened the window all the way, sending gales of ice-cold air 
in the previously-toasty apartment. The fuzzy, black and beige and white cat 


just sat there, bitching and howling so much I feared one of my neighbors 
might wake up and shoot her. 

Pd left my boots in the dryer all the way in the building’s basement. I 
didn’t know where the hell my running shoes were. So, in a momentary 
decision I would quickly come to regret, I squeezed my feet into a pair of 
my ex-girlfriend’s Crocs, pulled a heavy leather jacket on, and I rushed 
outside to grab the cat. A part of me kept saying, Screw it. It’s not your cat. 
Let the fucker freeze. 

But, like I said, I’m not that much of an asshole. As much as Beatrice 
deserved it, she loved that damn cat. And poor, stupid Donut wouldn’t stand 
a chance out here in the cold. Not for long. 

Plus, again, the cat was right there, howling like someone was eating 
her children in front of her. 

I rushed down the stairs, and I jumped outside, rushing to the tree that 
sat between the sidewalk and the building. I immediately regretted not 
taking the time to put proper clothes on. The cold, windy air sunk its claws 
into my legs and feet. 

Donut was right there, sitting on a tree just out of reach, looking 
between me and the open window into the apartment. She continued to 
howl. A light popped on in an apartment on the first floor. I groaned. Mrs. 
Parsons. Grumpy, I-like-to-file-complaints Mrs. Parsons. 

“Donut!” I said. “Come on you little shit!” I held out my arms. 

The cat could jump into my arms. It was something I’d trained her to 
do. I could shake a bag of cat treats, and she’d jump right up there. I could 
make a pspspsps sound, and she’d sometimes jump up on my shoulder. I 
cursed myself for not bringing cat treats out with me. 

The window on the first-floor apartment slid open. “What in god’s name 
is going on out here?” Mrs. Parsons called, sticking her head out the 
window. The old woman had her head wrapped in a some sort of towel, 
making her look like a swami. Her beady eyes focused on me. “Carl, is that 
you?” 

“Yes, Mrs. Parsons,” I said. “Sorry. My cat got out, and I’m trying to get 
her in before she freezes to death.” 

“Tt looks like you’re the one who’s going to freeze to...” 

Mrs. Parsons never finished the sentence. 

Slam. 

It happened so fast. 


The building smashed down to the ground. I watched it happen. The 
seven-story apartment building was there one moment, and then it was 
gone. But it hadn’t disappeared. I was looking right at Mrs. Parsons when it 
went down. It was like the building was a massive tin can that had been 
crushed by a giant, cosmic boot. I saw it, and I heard it. Wind rushed at me, 
and it was instantly dark outside. The streetlamp just to my left was gone. 
The buildings all around me were gone. The cars on the street were gone, 
too. 

Everything was gone except the trees and the bicycles in the bike racks, 
and Marjory Williams’s moped that was still booted by parking 
enforcement. 

I looked around, the freezing weather momentarily forgotten. In the 
dark, overcast night, I could barely see anything. In the distance—a 
distance I could now see thanks to the lack of buildings—a fire burned. 

There was utter, complete silence. 

“What the hell,” I said, spinning in circles. 

A couple random things remained. Like the bike rack. The stop sign was 
there, but the street sign next to it was gone. It didn’t make sense. Where 
the cars were parked on the road, car-shaped indentations of dirt appeared, 
as if they’d been pulled down toward the center of the earth, being ripped 
directly through the asphalt. 

Donut jumped into my still-outstretched arms. I looked at the cat, not 
knowing what to do or say. 

“What the hell,” I said again. 

All that remained of my building was a rectangle of churned dirt and 
rocks. 

And then I saw it, right near my feet. 

It was Mrs. Parson’s head. In the dark, it was hard to discern. But I 
immediately knew what it was. 

It hit me, at that moment. The sudden shock of the buildings was one 
thing. But there were people in those buildings. It was almost everybody in 
the damn city. Hell, even most of the homeless people were in shelters. 
There’d been a whole thing on the news about them rounding everybody up 
because of the extreme cold. It was two in the damn morning on a Monday 
night. Everyone would be in bed. And that meant everyone was dead! 

I kept spinning in circles like an idiot, not knowing what to do. I felt 
sick to my stomach. Donut started to squirm, having decided I was useless. 


She clawed at me, but I wouldn’t let the cat go. 

Then came the voice. A male, robotic voice. 

It spoke in my mind. The voice was like a physical thing. A spike in my 
brain, scratching me. It wasn’t speaking English. But I understood the 
words. As the person spoke, the text also appeared floating in front of me. 

Surviving humans take note. 

“What?” I said out loud. “What’s that? Who’s there?” I kicked at the 
floating words with my foot, and the too-small Croc went flying. I hopped 
over and quickly shoved my foot back in. The words moved with me, 
floating just a few feet in front of my face. 

Even the letters weren’t in English. They crawled down, not across the 
screen. But I knew them, understood them like I’d been reading the 
language my entire life. 

Per Syndicate rules, subsection 543 of the Precious Elemental 
Reserves Code, having failed to file a proper appeal for mineral and 
elemental rights within 50 Solars of first contact, your planet has been 
successfully seized and is currently being mined of all requested 
elemental deposits by the assigned planetary regent. 

Every interior of your world has been crushed and all raw 
materials—organic and inanimate—are in the process of being mined 
for the requested elements. 

Per the Mined Material Reclamation act along with subsection 35 of 
the Indigenous Planetary Species Protection Act, any surviving humans 
will be given the opportunity to reclaim their lost matter. The Borant 
Corporation, having been assigned regency over this solar system, is 
allowed to choose the manner of this reclamation, and they have chosen 
option 3, also known as the 18-Level World Dungeon. The Borant 
Corporation retains all rights to broadcast, exploit, and otherwise 
control all aspects of the World Dungeon and will remain in control as 
long as they adhere to Syndicate regulations regarding world resource 
reclamation. 

Upon successful completion of level 18 of the World Dungeon, 
regency of this planet will revert to the successor. 

A Syndicate neutral observer Al—myself—has been created and 
dispatched to this planet to supervise the creation of the World 
Dungeon and to ensure all the rules and regulations are properly 
followed. 


Please pay careful attention to the following information as it will 
not be repeated. 

Per the Indigenous Planetary Species Protection Act, all remaining 
materials—estimated to be 99.999999% of the sifted matter—is 
currently being repurposed for the subterranean World Dungeon. The 
first level of this dungeon will open approximately 18 seconds after the 
end of this announcement. The first-level entrances will be open for 
exactly one human hour and one hour only. Once the entrances are 
closed, you may no longer enter. If you enter, you may not leave until 
you have either completed all 18 levels of the World Dungeon or if you 
meet certain other requirements. 

If you choose not to enter the World Dungeon, you will have to 
sustain yourself upon the surface of your planet, and this may be the 
last communication you receive during your lifetime. All previously- 
processed matter and elements are forfeit. However, you are free to 
mine and utilize any remaining and naturally-occurring resources for 
your own benefit. The Borant Corporation wishes you luck and thanks 
you for the opportunity. 

For those who wish to exercise their right of resource reclamation, 
please take note. 

There will be 150,000 level-one entrances added to the world. These 
entrances will be marked and easy to spot. If you so choose to enter the 
first level of the dungeon, you will have five rotations of your planet to 
find the next level down. There will be 75,000 entrances to level two. 
There will be 37,500 entrances to level three. 18,750 to level 4. 9,375 
entrances to level 5 and 4,688 entrances to level 6. The number of 
available entrances to the next lower level will continue to decrease by 
half, rounding up until the 18th level, which will only have two 
entrances and a single exit. 

Crawlers who choose to enter the World Dungeon must find a 
staircase and descend to the next level down before the allotted time is 
up for that level. Once the time has passed, the level will be reclaimed 
and all remaining matter in the level, organic and inanimate, will be 
forfeit. Generated loot and other matter that is not gathered and 
claimed may be placed in the Syndicate market. 

Each lower level will have a longer period of reclamation. 
Additional rules come into play once any crawlers descend to the tenth 


floor. These rules will be explained when and if any crawlers reach this 
level. 

If you so choose to enter the World Dungeon, it is highly 
recommended you immediately find and utilize a tutorial guild. 
Multiple tutorial guilds will be seeded throughout the dungeon on 
levels 1 through 3. 

If you have any additional questions, or you wish to file an appeal, 
such requests must be submitted in writing directly to the closest 
Syndicate office. 

Thank you for being a part of the Syndicate. Have a great day. 

My brain could barely parse any of what the voice had said, so 
bewildered I was at everything that had just happened. I could no longer 
feel my legs. I had been outside much too long, and I was in serious danger 
of freezing to death, of losing toes to the cold. I had to get inside, and I had 
to do it now. 

But there was no inside anymore. There weren’t even any cars. I eyed 
the fire that continued to rage a few blocks over. I needed to get over there, 
and fast. I turned, and I started to shuffle run. 

The wind, which had been a light breeze before the buildings all 
disappeared, was now a constant, freezing gale that stank of the ocean. 
Donut twisted in my arms, scratching at me, trying to get free. She 
chomped onto my shoulder, but my jacket protected me. I clutched the cat 
tighter. 

Was this a dream? Had I accidentally been dosed with some sort of 
hallucinogen? 

World dungeon? What the actual hell? What did that even mean? My 
mind continued to race. I immediately thought of Pathfinder and Dungeons 
and Dragons and other games I hadn’t played since I was on active duty. I 
couldn’t see a single damn person. I was surrounded by only the sound of 
the wind. 

A horn, like a trumpet, sounded, blasting through the night air. I stopped 
dead, looking around. What now? It’s the dungeon appearing, I thought. 
This is happening. Holy shit, this is really happening. 

Less than a hundred feet to my left, right in the middle of what had once 
been a thrift store, a spotlight burst into the air. I saw an additional spotlight 
appear about a mile away. I turned, and I saw a few more littered 
throughout the city. 


Even from this distance, I could feel the warmth radiating from the 
brightly-lit hole in the ground. 

I didn’t think about it. My head still swam with all the information that 
had been thrown at me. The pink Crocs barely fit on my feet. The distant 
fire was further away than I thought. I had seen firsthand what hypothermia 
did to people. 

So I turned toward the light, and I ran. 


OceanofPDF.com 


OceanofPDF:com 


Dungeon Floor 1. 
Time to Level Collapse: Five days. 


AN ORNATE STAIRCASE LED DOWN INTO THE LIGHT. EACH STEP APPEARED TO 
be made of wrought iron, and the whole thing was wide enough to 
accommodate twenty people walking side-by-side. Glowing warmth 
radiated from the hole. I took a step, falling down a little further than I 
anticipated. My footfalls echoed into the brightness. 

This was a city of almost a million people, and I was the only one here. 

Donut, who had stopped fighting, clutched onto my shoulder and started 
growling as we descended toward the bright light. Welcome, glorious 
warmth beckoned me deeper. My legs and feet, which I hadn’t been able to 
feel, were now Starting to burn. I hadn’t been out in the cold long enough to 
sustain any real damage, but I was frostbitten to hell. 

The stairs seemed to go on forever. The iron steps were carved in an odd 
pattern depicting what could’ve been fish. Or maybe demons. The almost 
Asian-looking carvings gave me an uneasy feeling. These stairs weren’t 
here just a few minutes ago. This whole thing is made of the buildings and 
cars and people of the world. Who did this? How did they do it? 

By the time I reached the bottom of the stairs, the temperature had risen 
to a humid, balmy 80 degrees Fahrenheit or so. The metal stairs ended at a 
marble floor and a hulking door that stood about thirty feet tall and was just 


as wide. The wooden, arched door was carved in the shape of a massive fish 
demon, like the stairs. 

I looked up at the double doors. 

“What the hell is this thing?” I muttered. 

As I stared at the door, an information box popped up over the door. The 
box appeared so suddenly and unexpectedly that I stepped back. It was like 
I was in a game, or maybe wearing special contact lenses that popped up 
informational tooltips. It even had a little X in the comer to close it out. 

This is a rendition of a Kua-Tin, the dominant species of the Borant 
System and principal owners of the Borant Corporation. Make sure 
you recognize these guys. There’ll be a test later. 

Was that last part supposed to be a joke? I focused on the X in the 
corner and mentally closed the box. 

Huh, I thought. I looked up at the carving again and I felt something, 
almost like a slight, haptic tingling in my brain. The information box 
popped up again. I closed it. 

Weird. I could control the information with my mind. I could open 
information boxes on certain items by focusing on them. I could close the 
boxes by mentally clicking the X with my mind. 

That means they’re in your head. Maybe this isn’t really happening. 
Maybe you’re asleep, and this is all some sort of high-tech simulation. Like 
in the Matrix movies. 

The pain in my warming-up legs and feet reminded me that simulation 
or not, it didn’t matter. Not when I could hurt. 

With my one free hand, I pushed at the door. It opened easily inward, 
revealing a long hallway lit by multiple torches. The hallway was just as 
wide and tall as the door, more like a tunnel for a double-lane roadway than 
for someone to walk through. In the distance I could see several branches 
leading off the main hall. A blinking light appeared near the first branch. It 
seemed to be a sign of some sort, but I couldn’t read it from here. 

“Oww,” I cried as Donut chomped down on my hand. I dropped the cat, 
and she bounded forward into the hallway. She stopped about ten paces in, 
looking around with a confused, startled look on her face. 

I stepped toward the cat, and the doors slammed behind me. The light 
from the entrance room cut off and was replaced with a dusk-like dimness. 

Welcome, Crawler. Welcome to the First Floor. 


This was a new voice. It was male, sounding overly enthusiastic, almost 
like a game show host. It wasn’t the same person or speaker from the 
original announcement. The words appeared floating before me and were 
simultaneously spoken in my mind. Unlike the tool-tip like box, I wasn’t 
able to close it out. This was more like subtitles. 

A timer appeared in the upper right of my vision. It was at 4 days, 23 
hours, and 48 minutes and counting down. I, again, swiped at the 
characters. They didn’t go away. I closed my eyes, and the information 
disappeared. It was unsettling and it gave me a slightly queasy feeling to 
my stomach. 

Donut remained in her spot several paces in front of me, but the chunky 
cat was swiping at the air in front of herself. She sees it too, I thought. Holy 
crap. Whatever this was, it was happening to the cat just like it was to me. 

“Donut,” I said, calling to the cat. “Stay with me.” 

The cat, being a cat, ignored me. But as I looked at her, I felt that same 
almost imperceptible tingle I felt when I’d looked at the door. I focused 
more tightly, and an information box popped up over the cat. 

Crawler #4,119. “Princess Donut.” 

Level 1. 

Race: Cat. 

Class: Not yet assigned. 

I took a step forward, painfully aware that I was wearing Crocs that 
didn’t fit. 

More text assaulted me. 

You have been designated Crawler Number 4,122. You have been 
assigned the Crawler Name “Carl.” 

You are assigned the race of Human. You are currently level 1. You 
may choose a new race and class as soon as you descend to the third 
floor. Your stat points have been assigned based on your current 
physical and mental profile. See the stat menu for more details. 

Menu? I wondered how to pull a menu up. But before I could even try 
to figure it out, I was bowled over by a wall of text. 

Congratulations! You’ve earned your first achievement: Crazy Cat 
Lady. 

You have entered the World Dungeon accompanied by a cat. Ahh, 
isn’t that sweet? 

Reward: You’ve received a Bronze Pet Box! 


New achievement! Trailblazing Crazy Cat Lady. 

You are the first crawler to have entered to the World Dungeon 
accompanied by a cat. You must really love that thing. Too bad you’re 
both probably going to die a horrible death at any moment. Or maybe 
not. Look at the prize you just received! 

Reward: You’ve received a Legendary Pet Box! 


New achievement! Early Adopter. 

You are one of the first 5,000 Crawlers to enter a new World 
Dungeon. Sucker. 

Reward: You’ve received a Silver Adventurer Box! 


New achievement! Empty pockets. 

You didn’t bring any supplies. None. You know you still gotta eat, 
right? 

Reward: You’ve received a Bronze Adventurer Box! 


New achievement! Why aren’t you wearing pants? 
You entered the dungeon wearing no pants. Dude. Seriously? 
Reward: You’ve received a Gold Apparel Box! 


New achievement! Unarmed combat. 

So. You just gonna waltz right into something called a “World 
Dungeon” and you’re not even going to bring a weapon? You’re either 
braver than you look, or you’re just an idiot. Good luck with that, Van 
Damme. 

Reward: You’ve received a Bronze Weapon Box! 


New achievement! Loner. 

You entered the dungeon without any human companions. Didn’t 
anyone teach you there is safety in numbers? 

Reward: None! Haha. You are so dead. 


I stared at those last words as they faded away. 

You are so dead. 

Donut was, again, swiping at the air. 

“Menu,” I said out loud. Nothing happened. 

“Stats.” Nothing. 

How the hell was I supposed to look at my information? It said Pd 
“received” multiple... what? Loot boxes? That’s sure as hell what it 
sounded like. Which meant I had some sort of inventory. I remembered 
something from the initial announcement, something about finding a 
tutorial guild. I looked up at the neon sign about a hundred meters down the 
dark tunnel. Would that be it? 

I started to shuffle jog down the tunnel toward the blazing sign. I passed 
Donut, who sat upon the ground, licking her paw and rubbing it against her 
forehead. After a moment, the cat seemed to sigh and decide to follow. 

The neon sign read “Da Tutorial Guild” with an arrow pointing down a 
thin, dark alleyway. I shuffled to a stop. The swish of my footfalls echoed in 
the large, empty tunnel. I peered into the darkness. It was pitch black in 
there. 

Behind me, Donut meowed with concern. 

I stepped into the alley. 

New achievement! Fall into an obvious trap. 

Reward: Well, if there’s a heaven, and if you haven’t been too much 
of an asshole, maybe they’ll let you in. Because you about to meet your 
maker. 

Three lights flipped on, blinding me. I covered my eyes and took a step 
back. Something mechanical hissed, and what sounded like a steam engine 
roared to life. I heard laughter, high-pitched and squealing. 

I turned, and I ran. Both of my pink Crocs went flying as I turned down 
the main tunnel, heading away from where I’d come down the stairs. Donut 
yowled and rushed after me. 


I hazarded a look over my shoulder and saw the contraption rocket out 
of the alleyway, almost crash into the far wall, and then slowly start to back 
up and turn, facing me. 

The machine was the size of a tractor and ran on treads, like a tank. The 
thing was built out of mismatched, rusting hunks of metal, and it looked as 
if it would fall apart at any moment. A spinning, spike-covered wheel 
dominated the front of the death machine. On top of the tractor three green- 
hued humanoid monsters stood, screaming and pointing in my direction. 
Each of these monsters looked to be about four feet tall and were dressed in 
leathery rags. One appeared to be wearing a kitchen pot on his head. He 
grunted and screamed as he worked the controls for the tall machine. Black 
smoke billowed from several pipes. The spinning wheel whirred even faster 
as the machine righted itself and started barreling toward me. 

A tooltip popped up. 

Goblin Murder Dozer. Contraption. 

A goblin-built, steam-powered machine designed to mow down and 
slaughter unsuspecting dungeon crawlers. I hope you’re up to date with 
your tetanus shots. 

Three more tooltips popped up over the three riders. Two of them read: 

Goblin. Level 2. 

Small, green, and smart. What goblins lack in physical strength, 
they make up for in pure spunk. 

The third goblin, the one with the pot on his head and driving the 
machine had a different description: 

Goblin Engineer. Level 3. 

Engineers. The incels of the goblin world. They have a hard time 
finding a date, which makes them extra angry. If there are any females 
in your party, they will attack them first. 

I didn’t have time to think about the stupidity of the jokes or the fact I 
was, for the first time, looking upon a group of real, live monsters trying to 
kill me. I rushed down the hallway and reached another junction. I could go 
three ways: forward, right, or left. Right was another half-lit hallway about 
half as wide as the last, but still plenty big enough for the goblins to follow. 
Left led into a tight, dark hall that’d be way too thin for the bulldozer. 

The obvious choice would be to flee down the dark hallway. I paused. It 
was too obvious of a choice. I sensed another trap. I couldn’t go straight 


because the next junction was too far away, and the machine would catch 
me for sure. 

I turned right. Donut followed, choosing to stay by my side, which was 
very un-Donut like behavior. 

This hall was only as wide a regular road with a smooth, fifteen-foot 
ceiling. Green, lichen-like growths glowed on the brick walls and ceilings, 
giving the tunnel an odd glow. Behind me, the goblins squealed as they 
struggled to maneuver the Murder Dozer. The thing had a wide turning 
radius, and it would take them at least a minute to pursue. 

Ahead, another group of junctions appeared. But just before the 
intersection, I spied a single, plain wooden door built into the wall. A 
simple sign was attached to the wall above the door. The words were 
painted the same color as the dark-red bricks of the wall, and I could barely 
read it. It read “Tutorial Guild.” The words were in that same, odd 
language. 

The moment I read the sign, a glowing green box appeared, highlighting 
the name. 

New achievement! You’ve discovered and read an official dungeon 
sign. 

Wow. You can read. Whoopie. 

Reward: All official dungeon signage will now be highlighted and 
easier to spot. Nearby guilds will appear on your minimap. 

A minimap? I really needed to figure this out. Behind me, the murder 
dozer had gotten stuck on the corner, and one of the level-two goblins was 
shouting and beating on the pot helmet of the engineer with what looked 
like a stick. The third looked at me and shook a fist. 

Would they follow me into the guild? I didn’t know. I grasped the brass 
door handle and tried to turn it. 

It didn’t open. Locked. 

“What the hell?” I said. I banged on the wooden door. 

“Hey,” I called. “Is there anybody in there?” 

The two, level-two goblins seemed to give up on waiting for the 
bulldozer to negotiate the tight turn, and they hopped off and started 
jogging toward me. They were unarmored, but both wielded what appeared 
to be wooden sticks with a pineapple on the end of it. They’d catch up ina 
minute. Next to me, Donut started to growl and hiss. 


From behind the door I heard the rattling of chains and turning of locks. 
The door cracked, only pulling open part way. A single chain remained, 
keeping the door from opening further. 

A bearded, rat-like creature appeared in the doorway. I could barely 
make out his features, but he was about a head shorter than me. So taller 
than the goblins, but not by much. 

“Whaddya want?” the voice said. “You mobs ain’t allowed in here. You 
know that!” 

“Hey, this is a tutorial guild, right? The thing said I was supposed to go 
in here.” 

The eye widened as it looked at me. 

“You’re... you’re a crawler? Wait.” The rat creature stepped back as if 
to get a better look at me. I was immediately reminded of Master Splinter 
the rat sensei from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. “You are! By his left tit, 
we opened up and I didn’t even notice! I must have slept through the 
announcement. Nobody tells old Mordecai anything! There used to be a 
newsletter. It was delivered every few cycles, reliable as can be. But then it 
just stopped. Budget cuts, I’m guessing. They’re always cutting corners. I 
thought we weren’t opening for another two years!” 

“Hey, let me in!” I interrupted. I turned to face the two goblins who 
jogged to a stop. One moved to my left, the other moved to cut off my 
retreat. 

“Open the damn door!” I cried. 

One of the goblins said something to the rat man behind the door, whose 
name appeared to be Mordecai. I couldn’t understand the goblin language. 
It was grunts and squeaks. Mordecai responded in the goblin language. 
They both laughed. 

“Sorry, crawler. You took too long,” Mordecai said through the chained 
door. “I can’t open up if there are mobs directly outside. Rules are rules.” 

“T took too long?” I said. I moved to a fighting stance. One of the 
goblins feinted, swinging at me with his club. The pineapple at the end of 
the club fell off when he swung it, and it hit the ground with a splat. The 
goblin cursed and kicked it away. I took a step back. Donut stood between 
my legs, hissing and spitting. 

“At least tell me how to open these damn loot boxes!” 

Mordecai was silent for a moment, as if he was contemplating on 
whether or not to tell me. 


“Tt’s in the Awards and Boxes tab of your inventory menu,” the rat man 
said. “But you can’t access it yet, kid.” 

“How do I get access to the inventory menu, then?” 

The second goblin—the one who still had a pineapple on the end of his 
stick—swung at me, missing by a wide margin. Up close, the goblins 
looked much like they did in movies and videogames. Short, green, mostly 
bald with pointed ears, angular faces, and sharp teeth. I briefly wondered on 
that. It seemed the aliens, or whatever, knew a whole lot about earth 
mythology and lore. 

Far behind him, the murder dozer had finally backed up properly and 
had straightened out. It rumbled down the hallway toward us. 

“Yeah, you gotta complete the tutorial.” 

The pineapple goblin swung at me again. I waited until the club passed 
the apex of its arc and stepped in. I hit the goblin square in the nose with a 
jab and then a left hook to its right temple. It crumpled to the ground in a 
heap. A bar appeared over the creature’s head the moment I hit it. A health 
bar, I realized. It hadn’t appeared until it took damage. The bar went down 
more than halfway, turning from green to red. The goblin had more than 
half of its life drained. 

Pd clocked it pretty good, but not that good. It was like I’d just punched 
a ten-year-old. 

The second goblin looked at his friend, open-mouthed, then turned and 
ran back toward the dozer. 

My fists ached. I hadn’t been in an actual, physical fight in years. Most 
of my time as a coast guardsman was aboard a cutter as an MK—a 
technician. I was never involved face-to-face with any sort of real law 
enforcement. That said, most people I encountered who’d never been in the 
service didn’t realize that we trained as much as we did. People thought of 
us as glorified lifeguards. They had no idea how much we trained in hand- 
to-hand combat. 

“How the hell do I do that if you don’t open the door!” I yelled as I 
kicked the downed goblin in the ribs. I felt a satisfying crunch. “Can’t you 
just let me have access now?” 

“It doesn’t work that way, kid,” Mordecai said. “We can’t just have 
untrained crawlers wandering around the dungeon, you know. Besides, you 
can’t open boxes unless you’re in a safe zone. And unless you’re a complete 
idiot, you can probably guess you’re not in a safe zone right now.” 


The goblin’s health bar had moved deeper into the red, but he wasn’t 
dead yet. A distant part of me seemed horrified that I was planning on 
killing this thing. Despite his weapon, he was incredibly easy to hurt. But 
one glance up at the bulldozer, which had stopped to pick up the second 
goblin, relieved me of any potential regret. I put my hands on either side of 
the unconscious goblin’s head and I smashed down on the stones. I smashed 
down again and again until the health bar completely drained away. 

“Hey, hey!” Mordecai yelled. “Hey, stop!” 

“Whose side are you on anyway?” I asked, whirling on the creature. 

But then I realized the rat wasn’t talking to me. “You can’t come in 
here!” he was saying, his back now turned. 

Donut. He was talking to the goddamned cat. She had decided she’d had 
enough of this hallway and wandered into the guild through the cracked 
door. 

A whole wall of New Achievement notifications appeared along with a 
couple other, new notifications, but instead of auto-playing like they did 
before, they appeared as little messages in the upper left of my screen. I 
sensed I could mentally click on them, but not now. The AI or whatever the 
hell was running this circus seemed to know that right now was not an 
opportune time to cover up half my line of sight with game bullshit. Not 
with the real danger barreling down on me. 

“Open the fucking door!” I cried. 

“Kid, get your creature!” Mordecai said, turning toward me, a strange 
hint of panic in the rat’s voice. “I’ll get in trouble if they find out I let a 
crawler sneak in against the rules.” 

“Open the door,” I repeated. “Look. It’s clear, but it won’t be will be in 
about five seconds. Let me in!” 

The door slammed, the last chain rustled, and then it opened all the way. 
I rushed inside just as the murder dozer barreled by, rolling directly over the 
bloody corpse of their friend. The brakes screamed, but the dozer continued 
its forward momentum, sliding on the body as it smeared down the hallway. 
The two goblins turned and met my eyes as I flipped them both off. They 
squealed in rage as I slammed the door. 


OceanofPDF.com 


THE MOMENT THE DOOR CLOSED, A NOTIFICATION APPEARED. 

Tutorial Guild Hall 

This is a Safe Zone. 

Warning: level timers are still active. 

“T shouldn’t have let you in,” Mordecai said, wringing his furry hands. I 
examined the rat creature. He wore a black vest and blue pants. He had a 
pair of well-worn sandals on his feet. An infobox popped up. 

Mordecai — Rat Hooligan. Level 50. 

Guildmaster of this guildhall. 

This is a Non-Combatant NPC. 

Hooligans are the smartest, fastest, and ugliest of the Rat-Kin race. 
While not as roided-out as a Rat Brute, or as Imma fireball yo ass as a 
Rat Shaman, Rat Hooligans offer the best of both worlds. They are 
physically strong, and they have a decent grasp of magic. 

I closed out the box. Through the door, I could still hear the screech of 
goblin machinery just outside. 

I mentally clicked on the first of several information boxes cluttering 
my vision. 

Error. You may not access this until you have completed the 
tutorial. 

All the boxes disappeared, swooping away into a single folder item that 
started to blink. 

I stood in a wide room about the size of a classroom. A fireplace and 
bed dominated one side of the room. Several shelves dotted the walls on the 
left half of the room, filled with random objects and a few framed 


photographs of bird-like creatures. The other half of the room was nothing 
but a well-worn and oval-shaped gray carpet and an empty desk. A half- 
dozen classroom-style chairs lay scattered about. I turned back to the door. 

“Ts this the only way out of here?” I asked. 

“What?” Mordecai asked. The rat wasn’t paying attention to me. He 
was focused on the cat. 

“Yo,” I said. “Morty. Is this the only exit?” 

“It’s Mordecai, kid. And yes, yes. Of course.” 

“Are those green assholes going to still be waiting for me when I get out 
of here?” 

Donut jumped up on a high shelf and knocked a vase over. Ash spilled 
out. 

“Mom!” Mordecai cried, running to the shelf, shooing the cat away. He 
reached up for the shelf, but he couldn’t reach. “Damn this body.” He 
turned back to me. “Can you just grab that thing for me? Get him out of 
here?” Mordecai sneezed. “I think I might be allergic.” 

I didn’t think he was sneezing because of the cat but because of the gray 
cloud of dust that had formed around the spilled ash. 

“Holy shit, man,” I said. Be careful, I warned myself. He doesn’t seem 
too tough, but he’s level 50. That’s gotta mean he’s a powerful bastard. 
“Can you help me? Are they going to wait for me or not?” 

“Yes. No. Probably. Well, it’s complicated. One might wait. But one 
will definitely go back to their clan and call the others. You smashed that 
poor goblin’s head right in. Give them an hour and the whole family will be 
out there.” 

Across the room, Donut discovered the fireplace, which crackled 
merrily. The cat sat in front of it, lifted her leg, and started licking herself. 

Shit. “Okay,” I said. “Don’t you dare lock this door.” 

I grasped the handle and went back outside. 

I barely had time to hear the rat say, “You’re tracking my mother’s ashes 
all over...” before I slammed the door. 

The goblin tractor had overshot the doorway by about ten meters and 
was in the middle of a wide turn, trying to come back the way it had come. 
The engineer had driven the tractor right into the wall. The spinning wheel 
sparked as the spikes shredded against the stone. The dead goblin remained 
smeared over the tiles. The corpse looked more like a party-sized sausage 
and green pepper pizza that had been run over a few times. 


Both of the remaining goblins had their backs turned to me. I sprinted 
toward the vehicle. 

The murder dozer had a small ladder near the back. It looked as if it was 
made of bones tied with rope. One of the goblins would turn at any 
moment. I had to get them now. If one of them got away and warned the 
other members of its “clan” or whatever, Pd be screwed. I needed this 
tutorial guild, so I only had one choice. 

The jagged bones of the ladder ripped into my bare feet as I pulled 
myself up. I stifled a cry. I jumped onto the top of the metallic, whirring 
contraption. 

The murder dozer screamed so loudly that neither had noticed me. The 
whole top of the machine was nothing but a fur-lined, recessed hole with 
benches running the length. Despite the fur, the ground was hot on my feet, 
almost burning. It smelled of scorched tar and animal musk. The machine 
could probably carry about fifteen or so goblins, not including the driver, 
who had a seat up front. A dozen levers and spigots and vibrating handles 
extended from the floor in the cockpit area. The controls all vibrated and 
bounced up and down. The pan-wearing goblin sat in the seat, screaming 
and grunting something as he twisted and turned and pulled on levers. 
Smoke billowed and steam hissed from multiple pipes. The whole machine 
vibrated like a boiler about to blow. 

The smooth, rocky ceiling of this tunnel was much lower than the long, 
main hallway leading off the stairs. When I stood to my full height, I could 
reach up and touch it. Barely. It still amazed me, the idea of an entire world 
made up of these hallways and paths. 

I rushed forward and grasped onto the regular goblin, who still clutched 
his pineapple-less stick in his hand. The creature barely weighed anything, 
surprising me. I picked him up as he grunted in surprise. He unsuccessfully 
attempted to hit me with his stick. With all of my strength, I threw the 
goblin forward. He rocketed out of the passenger area of the dozer. 

The screaming monster sailed directly over the head of the engineer, 
who was only now Starting to react. The flying goblin crashed onto the 
tunnel wall then bounced back, landing directly onto the spinning front 
blades. A spray of red showered over the both of us. 

The final goblin snarled, and quick as a whip pulled a small, curved 
blade from a sheath on his side. He jumped from his chair and rushed at me. 

Oh fuck. 


The monster moved much more quickly than I anticipated, surprising 
me. I had to remember this was a different class than the last two, and he 
was a level higher. Two levels higher than myself. 

This was a dumb idea. What was it that Bea always said? “You just 
jump headlong into things without thinking it through?” 

I kicked at the goblin with my bare foot. With nobody at the controls, 
the tractor continued to whine and shred at the dungeon wall. The vibrations 
got worse by the moment. Soon the whole thing was bucking like a washing 
machine with a rock inside it. 

The goblin was yelling something at me in its guttural language. 

“You’re in my world now!” I yelled back at him. “You need to speak my 
language you weird, green piece of shit.” 

To my surprise, the goblin grinned. I could tell he understood me. The 
little monster switched the knife back and forth between hands. “You’re not 
speaking your language,” he said. “You’re speaking Syndicate Standard, 
you idiot slave. They programmed it into your brain. Do you really think 
you’ ll survive past...” 

The goblin never finished the sentence. As he was distracted with his 
own soliloquy, I leaped forward, snatched the pot off his head, and 
clobbered him with it. Sharp little teeth went flying. The goblin stumbled. I 
smacked him again. He careened off the side of the tractor. His health bar 
appeared after I’d smacked him the first time, but it was still well in the 
green. He splatted to the ground, groaning. His knife went flying. 

I peered over the edge. The goblin lay on his back. The tractor 
continued to spin and buck, but it was edging in the opposite direction. The 
goblin’s health was still 3/4's full, but he’d had the wind knocked out of 
him. 

The goblin started to sit up and I threw the pot at him. To my utter 
astonishment, I clobbered him right in the forehead. He cried out, his hands 
reaching to grasp the new wound. 

I gauged the distance. It wasn’t very far. Like maybe seven, eight feet. 
I’d done that plenty of times as a kid. 

What the hell. I jumped off the murder dozer, aiming both feet toward 
the chest and stomach of the still-recovering goblin. 

I’m not sure if I mentioned this earlier, but this is important information 
right here. I stand six-foot, three inches tall. I weigh about 230 pounds, and 
while I wasn’t in nearly as good shape as I was while I was on active duty, 


Pd been hitting the gym three times a week for years, building my muscle 
mass. I’d always been blessed with one of those bodies that naturally held 
muscle well. My dad was a linebacker. Hell, even my mom was five foot 
ten. And her dad had played center for Oregon State before becoming a 
prison guard. 

So, what I’m getting at is that I’m a large dude. I have a lot of bulk. The 
goblin was small, and he did not have hardly any mass at all. The effect of 
me jumping onto him from high above was like someone smashing a fat 
jelly donut with a sledgehammer. The little dude didn’t have a chance. Goo 
spurted out of the goblin from every orifice. 

The murder dozer started to whine even louder. I looked down at what 
Pd done, and I suddenly felt sick to my stomach. More notifications 
appeared on my screen. A tooltip popped up, appearing in my peripheral 
vision. I turned to look. 

Goblin Murder Dozer — Boiler Breach Imminent. 

A countdown timer appeared below the text. It was at 12 seconds and 
counting down. 

Son of a bitch. It’s gonna blow. 

I turned back toward the room, a mere thirty meters down the hall. Was 
that too close? I didn’t have time to think about it. I ran, slipping and sliding 
on the tiles as I booked it back to the room. I ripped open the door and 
jumped inside. I slammed the door and braced for impact. 

Bam! The world shook. The door bucked, throwing me forward onto the 
floor of the guildhall. My ears rang. But the door held, and I didn’t seem to 
be otherwise injured. Donut was in the corner of the room, poofed out and 
hissing. 

“What the bloody hell did you do, kid?” Mordecai asked, looking over 
me at the door. “That gate is capable of holding back a kinetic strike from a 
star destroyer. I’d never seen anything shake it that much.” 

“Huh,” I said, sitting up. My ears continued to ring. “That goblin 
bulldozer thing got stuck against the wall, and then it blew up.” 

Mordecai nodded slowly. “A boiler breach then. The local shaman 
probably enchanted it in case it ever exploded. It would have focused the 
energy from the blast at the closest non-goblin. You’re lucky you were 
behind that door. A focused explosion, even a small one, has a lot more 
energy than you might think.” 


Having decided the commotion was over, Donut left the corner and 
returned to her spot in front of the fire. Her normally-poofy exterior 
remained extra puffed out, and her tail swished up and down. I could tell the 
cat was pissed off. 

“Your creature crapped in my mother’s ashes,” Mordecai said, shaking 
his head. “This is so not worth it. Not worth it at all.” 

“So, Mr. Training Guild,” I said, leaning against the wall. My feet 
ached. My heart continued to thrash in my chest. I was covered in goblin 
blood. It felt as if I had raw hamburger meat stuck between my toes. I 
shuddered. I need to get shoes. Shoes and pants. “What the hell is going on? 
What’s with the dungeon? Is everyone really dead? How do I work this 
shit?” 

A million other questions popped into my head. I knew he could 
probably snap and break me in half, but I had an overwhelming urge to grab 
the rat man by his stupid vest and shake him until all the answers tumbled 
out of him. “Also, who the hell are you? Why are you here? What’s 
really...” 

Mordecai held up his hands. “Okay, okay, slow down, kid. I know 
you’re confused. I’ve been in your position. All will be explained. That’s 
why I’m here. But before I start, I need to explain something to you two.” 
The rat looked over at the cat, who glared back at him. “My name is 
Mordecai, and I am what’s called a Non-combatant NPC. I am like you. I’m 
a person whose world was displaced. This was many, many solars ago. I 
was a dungeon crawler just like you. I made it all the way down to floor 11, 
and I knew I would never make it any further than that. Once you descend 
to floor 10, you’re given several options to exit the dungeon. The deeper 
you go, the better those options are.” He walked over to the shelf with the 
upset vase, and he picked up a framed photo of one of the bird creatures. He 
handed it to me. It looked remarkably like a normal, framed photo. But the 
material was peculiar, and the photo was cut oddly, oval-shaped with the 
comers lopped off. 

“That’s what I really look like. This is a photo of my brother. I was born 
a skyfowl, but I became a Changeling when I reached floor three of the 
dungeon. I switch form every time my guildhall is moved.” 

Mordecai continued. “When a dungeon first opens, I work in a guild 
such as this. Later on, after the third floor collapses, my room here is 
transported to a much-deeper level, and my form is changed again. I spend 


most of my time working a magic guild, which is a place one can go to pick 
spells and train if they’ve chosen a magic-based path. Though over the 
years I’ve only had a handful of people actually make it that far. Most 
crawlers don’t make it past the tenth floor.” 

“So, a Changeling is a shapeshifter?” I examined the picture. I couldn’t 
tell if it was a photograph or a painting or something else. The eyes of the 
image seemed to bore into me. It was a golden eagle-like creature. Wings, 
angel-like, were folded on its back. 

“Yes,” Mordecai said. He sighed. “They recreated my home for me, 
including all my possessions when I decided to become a guildmaster. I had 
but a few moments to grab anything I wanted before they evaporated it all. 
Now, every time I move to a new world, they change my shape. It’s 
something different every time, but it’s always a type of mob from the 
current floor of the dungeon. I don’t know why.” 

“T don’t believe any of this,” I said. “So you’re aliens? You’re all from a 
different world? Then how does the game or whatever know how we talk? 
Some of those last notifications mentioned Jean Claude Van Damme and 
incels and steroids!” 

Mordecai nodded. “You’re getting ahead of yourself. Each dungeon is 
specially built for the world it inhabits. And they spend a lot of time... a 
lot... of time making sure the locals understand the game and the 
notifications. They go for authenticity. I’m not really supposed to tell you 
any of this stuff, but I figure if you’re going to be stumbling around out 
there, you need to know what’s happening.” 

“T still don’t know what’s happening,” I said, frustration rising further. 

Mordecai shook his head. “You humans are all the same. This is the 
seventh or eighth human-seeded world, and it’s always the same. You 
always want to know why. Why can’t you just accept your circumstances 
and move on? My people, the skyfowls, we generally last much longer than 
you humans. You know why? Because we roll with it.” 

I didn’t say anything for several moments. There was a lot to parse 
there. “Human-seeded world?” Did that mean that conspiracy-spouting 
asshole on TV with the crazy hair was correct? That humans weren’t 
unique, but a crop, left to grow unattended until, until... this? 

Mordecai saw my look of bewilderment and sighed. “Okay, okay. Pll 
give you the quick version,” he said. He pulled a seat and sat down. He 


gestured to another chair situated in the center of the round carpet. “You 
might as well get comfortable.” 


OceanofPDE:.com 


“THERE ARE SIX BASIC STARTER SPECIES THE SYNDICATE USES TO SEED 
worlds. Humans are one of them. They find a compatible world, sprinkle 
the humans on there, wait a couple thousand years, and then reveal 
themselves to the largest settlement. They usually do this as soon as 
civilization starts to take hold, but long before any sort of industrial 
revolution. As long as there’s a working government, this counts as ‘First 
Contact.’ In a legal sense, I mean, which gives them leave to wait a couple 
thousand additional years, come back, and strip the planet dry.” 

“How?” I asked. “It all happened in a second!” 

Mordecai shrugged. “Technology beyond your understanding seems like 
magic. So as far as you’re concerned, in this place, it is magic. It’s like that 
Wizard of Oz movie, but you’ ll never get to peek behind the curtain.” 

“You’ve seen Wizard of Oz?” 

“Guildmasters prepare for years for each new dungeon world. Kid, I 
have been preparing for this longer than you have been alive. The advance 
team arrived in your 1930s, I believe. Whenever that book came out, The 
Hobbit. I left the last system and entered the prep phase in your year 1964. I 
know this world and your customs just as well as you do. I even once got to 
shapeshift into a human and go out into the world. I went to a Blockbuster 
Video and stole a bunch of James Bond tapes. I was so happy once you 
guys started digitizing everything.” 

“How long have you been a guildmaster?” 

Mordecai shook his head. “You don’t even want to know. So anyway, 
your planet defaulted on claiming Earth as a sovereign entity. You had 50 


local years since first contact, and first contact was several thousand years 
ago. Whenever those pyramid things were built. The Borant Corporation 
has a huge backlog of worlds to mine, and your time is now.” 

My head swam. “So, they’re taking all of our minerals?” 

Mordecai nodded. “Sort of. Borant deals in rare elements and the like. 
What they end up mining will fit on a single transport. I don’t know too 
much about that part of the process. The elements involved are unimportant. 
It’s a big universe out there, and there are plenty of places to mine. That’s 
not why they’re really here. While Borant does make a profit on the mining, 
the real money is in the game. The dungeon.” 

“How?” 

“Are you kidding? The Syndicate consists of over three billion 
independent star systems. Every season, a new Dungeon Crawler World 
debuts across the net. Quintillions of citizens of the Syndicate become 
obsessed with the Crawl.” 

“Wait, so this is like a TV show? Like Survivor?” 

“Oh, I loved that show. And as far as you’re concerned, yes. It’s a show 
like Survivor. But it’s more a Running Man situation than a Survivor one.” 

I leaned back in the chair. I’m on an alien television show. Holy shit. 

Bea had always wanted to be on television. She’d tried out for countless 
reality shows. Me? Pd rather have a hot poker stuck through my eye. I 
briefly wondered where she was, and if she was alive. Probably not, I 
decided. Itd been 5 AM in the Bahamas when it had happened, which 
meant she’d probably been asleep in her hotel. Probably in bed with that 
asshole. And if by some miracle she had survived, there’s no way she’d 
have gone into one of those tunnels. 

“So are there people watching right now?” I asked, looking around. 

Mordecai put his hands together. “I will get to that in a moment. It 
doesn’t look like anyone else is going to be joining us any time soon, so 
let’s get the tutorial started.” 

Mordecai’s right hand glowed for a moment, and I felt that haptic buzz 
in my brain. Across the room, Donut hissed and batted at the air. 

You have been granted access to the Crawler Menu. 

My world blinked, and several items appeared in my vision. A long 
green bar—a health bar, I realized—appeared in the top right. It pushed the 
timer down a notch. That blinking folder remained in my top left. A small 
minimap appeared in the bottom right. 


“You just received a notification,’ Mordecai said. “That’s called a 
crawler notification. There are a few different kinds, but that type will only 
be seen by you. There are also system messages, which everyone sees no 
matter what floor they’re on. Those may be in different voices. There are 
also floor-specific notifications, etcetera.” 

“T have a blinking box in my top left,” I said. 

“Those are game and status change notifications. Probably from your 
fight outside a few minutes back,” Mordecai said. “Don’t click it yet. We’ll 
get there. First, I want you to focus on the map on the bottom right. Look 
right at it, and make sure you’re thinking about looking at it.” 

I did as he asked, and the map got bigger, increasing to fill my entire 
vision. It was a simple blue and gray map showing the hallways and a few 
random doorways. Most of the area around us wasn’t filled in. It only 
showed the area we’d walked, pushing out about twenty meters in every 
direction. A green dot sat in the middle, right in the guild. Two additional 
dots appeared, a blue one and a white one. I focused on the blue dot, and a 
note appeared above it: 

Crawler Princess Donut. 

The white dot read: 

Guildmaster Mordecai. 

The whole room glowed yellow, and when I focused on it, it read: 

Tutorial Guild. 

A trio of X’s appeared outside in the hallway. I mentally clicked on one. 

Corpse — Level 2 Goblin. 

I mentally clicked away, and the whole map shrank back to normal. 

“Good, good,” Mordecai said. “So, you’re the green dot, the blue dots 
will be other crawlers, white dots will be NPCs such as myself, and mobs 
will be red. There are a few other kinds, but you’ll figure those out along 
the way. By the way, no other crawlers or mobs can see your menus, but 
while you’re inside this guild, J can see what’s on your screen. You are 
already adept at opening and closing, which is good. Now try focusing on 
the map again. With your mind, pinch it smaller. And then move it across 
the screen. That way you can customize your HUD.” 

It went on like this for a while, him explaining how to open and close 
menus within my display. I could just think about it, and a whole menu 
system would pop up, giving me access to several folders. Once I got used 
to the weirdness of it being in my head, the system was quite intuitive. 


The first menu was player stats. Like I mentioned earlier, I’d played a 
handful of computer and tabletop RPGs over the years, so this section 
wasn’t too surprising. My stats were: 

Strength: 6 

Intelligence: 3 

Constitution: 5 

Dexterity: 5 

Charisma: 4 

According to Mordecai, I couldn’t directly adjust these stats. Not yet. I 
received three stat points every time I leveled up, but I couldn’t distribute 
them until I picked a race and class. And I couldn’t do that until I reached 
the third floor down. For now, these numbers went up and down on their 
own based on my inherent, real-life physical and mental attributes. He also 
added the typical adult human averaged between three and five for each of 
these first five stats, so my six in strength was good. 

I could find items and potions that would either temporarily or 
permanently adjust these numbers, but for now, there wasn’t much I could 
do about them. 

“Why do we have to wait until we go down to the third floor before we 
get to pick a class?” I asked. 

He shrugged. “It takes a lot of energy to run this whole operation. I 
think they figure if you manage to make it to the third floor, you’re worth 
the investment to transfigure. Class is easy. But changing your race takes 
some doing. You’re being fundamentally changed at the cellular level. 
That’s a lot of effort for someone who’s just going to get eaten by a flytrap 
on the first floor.” 

I hadn’t thought about it until that moment. I can change into a different 
type of creature. If this was a computer game, I’d do it in a second. I never 
played humans in games if I could help it. But permanently changing 
myself into something different? The thought made me ill. It was something 
Pd have to think about and deal with when I got there. 

I grumbled a bit about that three in intelligence. Yeah, I never did too 
great in math, but I never considered myself a slobbering idiot, either. I 
could fix most anything electrical after studying it for a bit. My friend Billy 
Maloney, now that guy was an idiot. Just last week we’d come out of a bar, 
and he’d peed right on a cop’s bicycle while the cop was giving someone 


else a ticket for drunk and disorderly. That guy deserved an intelligence of 
three, maybe two. 

Billy is dead. He was still in jail. He’d had a warrant for failure to 
appear, so they’d taken him in. He’s dead like everyone else in the world. I 
pushed it away. 

After I complained about my intelligence score to Mordecai, using the 
Billy example, he said, “Intelligence told you that bike belonged to a police 
officer. Wisdom told you not to urinate upon it. We all have a wisdom stat, 
but it doesn’t appear on that list. It used to, but they discovered changing 
one’s wisdom greatly changed their personality, so it’s no longer adjustable. 
I do not know what this Billy’s intelligence is, but I guarantee his wisdom is 
not a 5. Worry not about an intelligence of three unless you’re seeking a 
magic-based class. Your best bet is something that focuses on strength.” 

That mollified me while Mordecai moved me to the next menu. 

“This next screen is the single most important menu in the entire game. 
Your life depends on these numbers.” 

It was called Ratings. I clicked on it, and the list took me aback: 

Ratings 

Views: 0 

Followers: 0 

Favorites: 0 

Patrons: 0 

Apparently the first level of the dungeon was off-limits to live viewers, 
so these stats wouldn’t move until I descended to the second floor. 

As of right now, no viewers had access to anything that was going on. 
However, Borant would release an edited highlights reel over the next day 
or so. If I managed to get shown during the “premiere” of the show or any 
of the regular update episodes, it would be like hitting the lottery. Featured 
crawlers always gained billions of views and millions of followers right out 
the gate. 

Given the sheer number of people in the world, I seriously doubted I 
was going to be featured, so if I wanted to survive, I needed to have what 
Mordecai called “Chutzpah” and “The ‘it’ factor.” 

“You need to stand out. You can’t just kill that shambling acid impaler 
and walk away. You need to kill it with style, with excitement. Maybe you 
can come up with a catchphrase. During my crawl, I managed to 


accumulate almost 30 million followers and four patrons. That’s the only 
way I survived.” 

“Excuse me, a shambling what?” 

“A shambling acid impaler. The second floor will be lousy with them. 
They trounce about on four legs, are green, hairy. Spit darts at you that melt 
your skin off. Awful creatures.” 

“Jesus Christ,” I said. I still felt as if this was all a dream. 

Mordecai snapped. “Hey. Kid. Pay attention. The monsters aren’t 
important. Well, they are. But this part especially is more important.” 

“Okay, okay,” I said, waving him along. “Keep going.” 

He went on to explain how viewership worked. Once I hit the second 
floor, watchers from across the universe had the ability to tune into any 
crawler they wished. Borant would continue to air highlights. So the longer 
I survived, the better my chances at getting featured. Any time someone 
watched me for just about eight seconds or so, it counted as a View. This 
stat didn’t help or hurt me, but it was a good indicator of how “interesting” I 
was. 

“You might not like it,” Mordecai said, “but pay careful attention when 
I tell you this. Obtaining Patrons is crucial to your survival. There is plenty 
of great loot in the dungeon that’ ll help you survive, but the best loot comes 
from benefactors. Patrons. Views lead to followers. If you’re being 
followed, it means the viewer has bookmarked your crawler ID. They can 
look in on you whenever they want. Following leads to favorites. If you’re 
favorited, that’s a good thing. It means the viewers are getting live updates 
on your stats and condition. They get notifications if you’re fighting. If 
someone has favorited you, they really want to know how you’re doing. 
Viewers only get a certain number of favorites, so consider it an honor.” 

“But,” Mordecai continued, “ultimately, it’s all about the patrons. Lots 
of favorites will always lead to patrons. Patrons are usually organizations, 
not individuals. They’ll see someone has a lot of favorites, and they’ ll 
sponsor you. It’s an advertising thing. They sponsor you by purchasing 
boxes for you. There are dozens of types of boxes, and each type of box has 
six quality tiers. Bronze, then Silver, then Gold, then Platinum, then 
Legendary, then Celestial.” 

“Yeah,” I said drily. “You wouldn’t let me open my boxes yet. Can I do 
it now?” 


“Hold up, kid,” Mordecai said. “We have a process here. We’ll get there 
in a minute.” He continued. “Most patrons can only afford, or are willing to, 
send you silver or gold boxes. Bronze boxes tend to be crap, but anything 
higher usually has some good stuff in it. Some of the richer patrons may 
even send you platinum boxes, though the cost for them has got to be 
astronomical. That said, patrons are the only ones who can send what are 
called Benefactor Boxes. Those contain the rarest items. So even a bronze 
Benefactor Box is better than a plain, Gold Adventurer box. A Benefactor 
Box may contain items from the patron’s home world. You will never find a 
pulse rifle or automated power armor in any sort of box in the world 
dungeon, but it’s possible to get one from a patron. Does that make sense?” 

“None of this shit makes sense,” I said. “But yes, I understand what 
you’re saying. I’m on an intergalactic game show, and I have to be an 
obnoxious showoff in order to get eyes on me. And once I do have eyes on 
me, I might get a loot box with toilet paper in it. Does that about sum it 
up?” 

Mordecai clapped his rat hands. “Yes! But toilet paper is 
complimentary. Restrooms are liberally populated throughout the map. It’s 
the only place the viewer cameras can’t follow you.” 

“Are you serious?” 

Mordecai nodded. “Oh, I’m serious. The last dungeon Borant managed 
didn’t have rest areas, and the crawlers were pissing and crapping all over 
the place. Crawlers lose viewers when they’re shitting in the middle of a 
hallway. It’s gross.” 

“And what does Borant get out of this?” 

Mordecai’s demeanor changed. It was a subtle thing, but he stiffened 
slightly. His voice took on an oddly formal tone. 

“In addition to the mining income we already discussed, the Borant 
Corporation receives advertising dollars, a stipend from the Syndicate 
government, and a commission on every credit spent by patrons.” He 
waited a moment, a long moment, before adding, “Also, it should be noted 
that every time a crawler mentions the name of either the interstellar 
government or the organization sponsoring the current crawl, the system AI 
will record the interaction for review. If it is found a crawler is disparaging 
either of these two entities, especially while on-camera with live viewers, 
the crawler’s experience may be ‘accelerated.’” 


I nodded. “Got it.” I had no doubt that “accelerated” meant nothing 
good. 

We spent the next several minutes going over a few other menu items. I 
had a health menu like in other games. Overall health was a single green 
bar, but in the menu, it was a more extensive pie chart. It indicated any 
active conditions and debuffs plus I could drill down to specific areas. 
Healing was sped up in the dungeon. I had recently been cured of several 
issues I didn’t even know I had, like abrasions at the bottom of my feet and 
on my hands, frostbite, and the start of an infection from when Donut had 
bit me. Health ticked up on its own slowly based on my constitution level. 

Also, if I went down a set of stairs to the next floor, my health points 
would instantly fill all the way up on their own. Another way to heal myself 
was via spells, potions, and scrolls. But there was no respawning. 

Dead was dead. 

After that was my skills menu. This section just went on and on and on. 
There seemed to be an infinite number of pages. If I didn’t have the skill, I 
couldn’t read what it said. It was still listed there, but the words were 
blurred out. Literally hundreds of pages would scroll by before I saw 
anything. Mordecai had me change the view to skills I did have, and that 
list was just as long. I had things like Breathing: 3. Walking: 4. Operating 
a Sony Brand RMVLZ620 Universal Remote Control: 1. The list just 
never ended. He had me uncheck a box, and most of those skills 
disappeared. What was left was still several pages long. Then another 
check, and anything with a skill of one or two disappeared. What was left 
was things like Unarmed Combat: 3, Basic Electrical Repair: 6, 
Swimming: 4. Nothing was over five other than Electrical Repair. Most 
everything was three. 

“This is a good start,” Mordecai said. “I’m impressed, kid. You’re 
proficient with several earth weapons, all firearms. But since you didn’t 
bring any, you’ll want to train with some of the dungeon-based weapons. 
We’ll see if you have anything good in any of the boxes when we get to it.” 

“And you’ll train me how to use them?” 

“Nope,” Mordecai said. “Not my job. There are guildhalls scattered 
around that’ll help you level up the skills—especially magic ones. But the 
best way is always to practice.” 

“Is there a store?” I asked. “The AI thing said something about a store.” 


“That’s when you reach the third floor,” Mordecai said. “There’s a 
structure to the third floor, and random stores will start populating the map 
after that. You can also trade with other crawlers or friendly mobs, if you 
can find any. Mobs on the second floor will start dropping gold.” 

Next was the magic menu, which was complicated as shit. It was also 
one of the most surreal parts of this adventure so far. I was given a simple 
healing spell and a pool of mana points which appeared in my top right 
underneath the health bar. Because my intelligence was only three, I only 
had three magic points. The healing spell cost two. Magic points naturally 
refilled about one every hour. 

I had a hotlist of ten spaces along the bottom of my screen, and there I 
could add potions or spells or other special items. Mordecai had me place 
the healing spell in spot number one. I could mentally click it to cast it. The 
spell was only a level one basic healing spell, and it would heal about 20% 
of my health. 

He made me try it, even though my health was already at the top. I cast 
the spell, and my whole body glowed red, my magic bar went down by 
2/3s, and nothing else happened. 

“If you were injured or sick, you’d feel much better after that,” 
Mordecai said. 

A voice boomed, interrupting the tutorial. This was yet another speaker. 
Not the game show host that usually spoke, but a distinctly female voice. 
She spoke almost casually, like a manager addressing a store filled with 
employees just before they opened for business. 

Hello, Crawlers! The dungeon is now sealed. We have a diverse 
group joining us this season, and we are very happy to have you here. 
We had just under 13 million human crawlers make it through the 
gates and into the dungeon. We are already down to under 10 million. A 
quick note, the entrances to the second floor will not open up until the 
introductory episode of Dungeon Crawler World tunnels, which will be 
in approximately 30 of your hours. Once that happens, the entrances to 
the second level will populate. There will be no lag time for the 
appearance of additional levels. On behalf of the Borant Corporation I 
wanted to thank you for volunteering, and I wish you all good luck and 
a happy crawl. 

Ten million people. It was more than I expected. But still, three million 
additional people dead in a matter of minutes. The number was so huge, it 


lost meaning. 

The announcement made me think of the way the dungeon was set up. 
The 5-day countdown timer continued to tick away. 

“Do we get five days before they destroy each floor?” 

Mordecai shook his head. “No,” he said. “It’s usually more each floor 
down. Later on, it'll depend on a lot of factors, such as ratings, how many 
crawlers are left, etcetera. But they usually add about five days each time. 
So you’ll probably have ten days for the second floor and then fifteen for 
the third. The countdown doesn’t start until the previous floor collapses.” 

“How hard is it to find the staircases?” 

“Tt can be tricky. It’s not too difficult for the first few levels, but you’ ll 
want to focus on finding items or skills that’ll help you find the next 
entrance down. This first floor is huge, as you can imagine. It’s almost the 
size of the surface of your planet. They won’t tell you this, but it’s not all 
connected. It’s not like you can wander about and run into someone from 
China. That’ll change once you hit the third floor. You’ll see if you survive 
that long. Starting on the fourth floor, each level will have a random theme 
and will encompass significantly less area. Entrances will stop populating in 
random places. They’ ll be guarded. You’ll have to complete quests or defeat 
bosses to get to them. I had barely made it to floor 11. And when I saw what 
guarded the entrances to level 12... I knew it wouldn’t be worth it.” 

“What was it?” I asked. 

He shook his head. “It doesn’t matter. It’ll be different here. It’s 
different every time.” 

From there we resumed the tutorial. We went over the Party menu. If I 
had been accompanied by a group of people, we could manage our party in 
this menu. Party members shared experience and were able to access a 
group chat feature. Anyone who entered the dungeon at the same time as 
anyone else was automatically grouped together, and as a result, I had a 
party of two. Me and Donut. 

The cat continued to lounge in front of the fire. It appeared she’d fallen 
asleep. 

“So, my cat,” I said. “The system has given her a crawler name and 
designator. Does that mean she’s getting all these special achievements and 
loot boxes too?” 

“Yes. Any biological creature above a certain weight who enters the 
dungeon is assigned a crawler ID. But one needs at least an intelligence of 


two to qualify for training, and if you can’t do training, your inventory 
doesn’t get turned on, which allows you to access your boxes. Otherwise, 
they’re designated as pets. All the other ones, like wild animals who happen 
to make it inside very rarely make it past the first floor. We’ll get to the pet 
menu after we open up your inventory, which is the next step.” 

Now that we’d put about twenty minutes between my earlier mention of 
Borant, I wanted to continue our previous conversation. 

“Before we do that, I have a couple questions about the people running 
the show.” 

He paused. “What is it?” 

“Are they always listening?” 

“Listening, yes. Paying attention, not necessarily. They expect a certain 
amount of ...gnashing of teeth... amongst the crawlers. And we NPCs are 
required to say the name of the organizers multiple times during the 
training, so we’re mostly ignored. Mostly. You really need to be careful 
once you start collecting followers. They know they’re sadistic assholes, but 
they don’t want you saying it on camera. They take their image quite 
seriously.” 

“T’m no math expert, but when the dungeon opened, there were tons of 
the glowing entrances in my city. They said there were only 150,000 of 
them seeded around the world. It seemed like... too many for my area.” 

“They have certain benchmarks they try to reach. The AI closely 
monitors the launch of the game, but there are loopholes. The entrances are 
rarely distributed equally. Ten million crawlers upon the sealing of the 
dungeon is pretty typical. So however it happened, it wasn’t on accident. 
Like I said, they spend a lot of time preparing for each dungeon.” 

“Yeah, you mentioned that,” I said. “You’ve been here for decades. 
Does this show really only air once every 90 years or so?” 

“No, not at all,” Mordecai said. “Different corporations run each season, 
which appear about every two and a quarter of your years. My employer 
usually has about five forward teams working at any given time, and they 
get chosen to run a season about one in fifteen.” 

“So with different corporations running each season and different 
worlds, uh, crawling, then is every season vastly different?” 

“Oh yes. The Squim Conglomerate chooses a different game 
completely, for example. It’s a battle royale-style fight. An entire world, and 
it all comes down to one champion. It’s good for ratings, but it doesn’t 


make them much money from what I understand. My company is known 
for making the most elaborate, most entertaining dungeons.” 

Wonderful. “And you?” I asked. “Are you stuck here for the rest of your 
life?” 

“No,” Mordecai said, smiling sadly. He looked down at the framed 
picture of the eagle creature I had placed on the floor. “This is my last tour. 
Once this nightmare is over, I become a full citizen, I receive a moderate 
stipend, and I am free to make my way into the universe.” 

“Will you go back to your home planet?” 

“No,” he said. “It’s not open to me.” 

“What about the people who didn’t go into the dungeon on your 
world?” 

He paused. “We really need to get back to the tutorial.” 

“Okay, but what if someone won the dungeon, made it past level 18. 
The message said if that happens, they gain control of the world. Maybe 
your world is under control of one of your people.” 

The rat creature grunted. “Remember how I said I made it down to the 
11th floor?” 

“Yeah.” 

“A handful of crawlers over the centuries have made it that far. One 
once made it down to 13. One. He died within a half-hour of hitting the 
floor. He was a human, like you. But from another human world. That’s the 
deepest anyone has ever delved, kid. Level 13.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


“T’?VE JUST ACTIVATED YOUR INVENTORY,” MORDECAI SAID, WAVING A HAND. 
“This season Borant is trying something a little different.” 

“Different good or different bad?” I asked, pulling up the menu. 

The only thing listed was a handful of loot boxes with Ready to Open 
next to them. 

“Last season, it was a slot-based system. It allowed one to carry 
multiple items, but it was limited in capacity and had standard weight 
limits. This season, each crawler is given a dimensional inventory and AI 
cataloging system.” 

“What does that mean?” 

“Its a good thing. Basically, unlimited storage. And if you can 
physically lift it off the ground by yourself for about four seconds, you can 
put it in your space, no matter how big it is. The only rule is you can’t store 
living creatures. They will immediately die. Also, the storage is time- 
locked, so food doesn’t go bad. That’s a big one. We had an issue last 
season with crawlers starving to death. Watching thousands of lethargic, 
unmoving players as they waited the timer to run out... Yeah. It was no 
good, so Borant fixed it. Disease and starvation doesn’t make for 
compelling drama.” 

He produced a single, glass bottle. It was small, like a third the size of a 
coke bottle. It was red with a cork in it. 

“Pick it up and place it in your inventory. A gift from me to you.” 

I picked it up and examined the item’s properties. 

Standard Healing Potion. 


Increases your health by at least 50%. Doesn’t cure poison or other 
health-seeping conditions such as succubus-inflicted gonorrhea. So 
remember to wrap it up, bucko. 

I pulled up my inventory menu, and an Add Item to Inventory button 
appeared. I clicked it, and the potion vanished. It appeared in my inventory 
list, which now had both a Potions and Healing submenu. I mentally clicked 
on it, and the potion reappeared in my hand. 

“Good, good. If you add the potion to your hotlist, you’ll drink it 
without having to actually drink. Remember this, because some of these 
potions taste like shit. If you straight pull it from the normal inventory, 
you’ ll have to pop the cork and swallow. Potions and other like items stack 
up to 999 a slot, so it’s best to stick them in your hotlist. And that’s pretty 
much it. There are a few other quirks regarding inventory, but you’ll figure 
them out along the way.” 

I put the potion back and then added it to the hotlist next to my healing 
spell. 

“Okay,” Mordecai said. “Lets take a look at your current 
notifications... holy tits!” 

“What? What?” I said, alarmed, looking around. Donut looked up from 
her spot by the fire and yawned. 

“You have a Legendary Pet Box! Why didn’t you say so?” 

I just looked at him. The urge to punch him in the face returned. 

Mordecai shook his head. “Legendary right when he walks in,” he 
grumbled. “Okay. Yes, yes you do have a lot of boxes. Okay, now that 
inventory is active, you can pop up your missed notifications. Let’s take 
look.” 

I had a line of the notifications. I clicked on the first one. 

New achievement! You’ve inflicted damage on a mob. 

Hopefully it won’t hit back! 

Reward: It’s probably going to hit back. 


New achievement! You’ve killed a mob! 

You’re a murderer! He probably had a family! 

Reward: You can now gain experience. Get enough of it, and you 
might even go up a level. 


New achievement! You’ve killed an armed mob with your bare fucking 
hands! 

Holy crap, dude. That’s kinda fucked up. 

Reward: You’ve received a Bronze Weapon Box! 


New achievement! You’ve killed a mob a higher level than yourself! 
You’re getting the hang of this. Don’t let it get to your head. 
Reward: You’ve received a Bronze Adventurer Box! 


New achievement! You’ve entered a guildhall! 
Congratulations. You know how to open doors. 
Reward: That sense of fulfillment you feel? That’s reward enough. 


New achievement! Podophilia! 

You’ve used your bare feet to crush and kill an opponent! Hey! 
That’s my fetish! Seriously. Keep doing it, and you’ll be rewarded. This 
will help. 

Reward: You’ve received a Gold Shoe Box! 


New achievement! Boom! 

You’ve caused a wall-shaking explosion within the dungeon! The 
last time the walls shook like this was when your mom came over for a 
Visit. 

Reward: You’ve received a Silver Goblin Box! 


New achievement! Level-Up, Baby! 
You’ve received enough experience to gain a level. 


Reward: Leveling up is your job. You don’t get rewards for doing your 
job. 


Underneath those were a few additional notifications: 


You’ve gained a skill level! 
Pugilism Level 4. 
The art of beating the shit out of your opponents with closed fists. 
Each level of this skill increases your bare-knuckle damage by 25%. 


Level Up! You are now level 2. 

Three stat points gained. 

Several other skill-based notifications flashed and disappeared before I 
could read them, likely thanks to my tinkering with the menu earlier. My 
inventory glowed, and I clicked on it. Several additional loot boxes now 
appeared on my list. 

“You may only open boxes in safe areas,’ Mordecai said. “All 
guildhalls are safe areas, but not all safe areas are guildhalls.” 

“Will they be hard to find? The safe areas, I mean?” 

“The safe rooms will always appear on your map, even if they’re within 
the fog of war.” 

“Fog of war?” 

“If you haven’t visited an area, it won’t show the specifics of the 
hallways, even if it’s in the range of your minimap. The fog of war covers 
places you haven’t yet visited. The safe rooms will have restrooms, sleeping 
cubicles, and some will even have food and fountains with healing potions. 
Getting to them might be hard, but you’ll always know where they are if 
you get close enough.” 

“Ts there a time limit for staying in one?” 

“Nope. But don’t forget the level itself is going to collapse in on your 
head after a certain amount of time. The only way to survive is to keep 
moving deeper.” 


“Okay,” I said, rubbing my hands together. “Hopefully there are some 
pants in one of these things. Let’s start cracking them open.” 

“Okay,” Mordecai said. “You have 10 loot boxes. That’s a lot, but not a 
crazy amount. Usually people come into the tutorial with two or three. You 
can hoard them, but when you do decide to open them, you can’t pick and 
choose which ones to open. It’s an all or nothing thing. There’s no real 
tactical reason to hold onto them since you can’t sell or transfer unopened 
boxes. Also it’s important to note that while it’s possible to receive unstable 
or damaged loot, you’!l never receive outright cursed loot in a box. But that 
doesn’t mean everything is safe to try on. Always read the descriptions 
before you activate or wear something. Always, always. No exceptions. 
Okay here we go. It’s going to open them by tier.” 

The ten boxes all popped out of my inventory and appeared floating in 
front of me single file. The first few boxes were about half the size of a 
military footlocker. Each box had a label floating over it. The first to appear 
was bronze-colored and had a strange, hedgehog-like animal stenciled on 
the top. 

Bronze Pet Box. (1/10) 

The top popped open on its own. The box disappeared in a puff of 
smoke, and a single rolled-up piece of paper and a small pile of what looked 
like dry cat food appeared on the floor. Text appeared above each item. 

Scroll of Heal Critter. 

Pet Biscuit X 10. 

The items disappeared and entered my inventory. Before I could open 
the inventory box to read the description of the scroll, the next box 
appeared. 

Bronze Adventurer Box. (2/10) 

Potion of Healing X 2. 

Common Fingerless Gloves. 

After that was 

Bronze Weapon Box. (3/10) 

Toad Cudgel. 

The “toad cudgel” was a stick. It looked like a 3/4's length baseball bat 
shaped by someone who only had a vague idea of what baseball was. 

Bronze Weapon Box. (4/10) 

Poker. 


This wasn’t much better. It was literally a fireplace poker. A wrought 
iron stick with a screw-on point at the end. 

Bronze Adventurer Box. (5/10) 

Potion of Healing. 

Potion of Mana. 

These next two boxes were slightly larger and made of silver. 

Silver Adventurer Box. (6/10) 

Poison Antidote X 2 

Crawler Biscuit X 100 

Torch X 20 

This next silver box looked distinctively different than the last. Like the 
goblin murder dozer, it appeared hobbled together with random hunks of 
silver-colored metal. A goblin skull was etched onto the lid. 

Silver Goblin Box (7/10) 

Dynamite X 5 

Lighter 

Goblin Pass 

The Goblin Pass took the form of the same goblin-shaped skull from the 
top of the box. The symbol appeared floating in the air. Instead of adding 
itself to my inventory, it flew and smacked up against my left inner forearm. 
I was still wearing my leather jacket, but I could feel it burning against my 
skin, like I was being branded. The brand also appeared on the exterior of 
the jacket. The pain quickly abated, and my jacket was otherwise 
undamaged. 

It was time for the good stuff. These next two boxes were bigger yet and 
glowed with a golden light. 

Gold Apparel Box (8/10) 

Enchanted Nightgaunt Cloak of Stoutness. 

Enchanted Trollskin Shirt of Pummeling. 

Beside me, Mordecai gasped the moment the two items appeared. I 
hoped that was a good thing. 

Gold Shoe Box (9/10) 

Enchanted Toe Ring of the Splatter Skunk. 

A toe ring? A goddamned toe ring? I needed shoes, damnit! Not a toe 
ring! 

I was so irritated by this prize, I almost missed the opening of the final 
box. The Legendary Pet Box had the same symbol etched on it as the 


Bronze Pet Box, but this thing was three times the size. It was made of 
alternating, intricately carved silver and gold patterns. Clockwork gears 
spun with a ratcheting click click click as the box opened. A musical fanfare 
sounded. 

Legendary Pet Box (10/10) 

Pet Biscuit X 500 

Enhanced Pet Biscuit 

“That’s it?” I said as the final prizes poofed back into my inventory. 
“What the hell is an enhanced pet biscuit?” 

Mordecai was looking between me and Donut. 

“Yeah, kid. You’ll want to give your cat that biscuit right now while 
you’re still in the guild.” 

“What does it do?” I asked. I pulled it out of my inventory. It looked 
like a cat treat. It was small, smaller than my fingernail, brown, hard, and 
round with a crumbly texture. I doubted I’d be able to get Donut to eat it. 
While the cat was always shoving her face with food, Bea insisted on 
giving her the wet stuff even though it got all over her face. Donut turned 
her nose up at most everything else. 

I examined the treat’s attributes. 

Enhanced Pet Biscuit. 

So, it looks like a regular pet biscuit. It’s not. 

Feed to your pet at your own risk. What’s the worst that can 
happen? 

“Uh, what does it do?” I asked a second time. 

“The effects vary,” he said. “Regular Biscuits feed pet-based classes for 
a full day. The pets find them delicious. They smell them, and they’ll just 
gobble them up. So make sure you only pull one out at a time. Enhanced 
treats have over 100 different possible effects. Half of them are good. The 
rest are... neutral... or decidedly bad. But if there’s a bad outcome, your pet 
won’t attack you if you feed them the treat while you’re in a safe zone. Your 
pet will be teleported outside to a random place within a square mile of 
here. If you feed it to her while you’re out on crawl, and she transforms into 
a toothed fleshbutcher, you’re pretty much fucked. So you should definitely 
do it now. Either that or save it to sell later. It’s worth a couple thousand 
gold.” 

Shit. Pd been avoiding thinking about this until now, but what could I 
do? Donut was a damn cat. It wasn’t like she was a mastiff or anything, 


some sort of pet I could use as protection. Even if I could get her to follow 
me in the first place, she’d be more a liability than anything. 

I felt an obligation to her. I was all she had left in the world. It wasn’t 
logical, I knew. But if I could sell this tiny little treat for a lot of money, I 
could buy some really useful items. Like shoes and pants. 

I rolled the cat treat in my fingers. As awful as it was, it would be best 
to... 

“Ow!” I cried as Donut leaped up and ate the treat right from my hand. 

Splat! The moment the cat hit the ground, she was transformed into a 
wet mess of flesh. She splattered like a hunk of hairy, jellied water. 

“Donut!” I cried. “What the hell happened to my cat?” 

Waiting... Waiting... appeared over the quivering, shaggy mass. 

“Hmm,” Mordecai said, coming forward to poke at the blob with his 
foot. It wiggled. “Transformation. Your creature is being changed somehow. 
It didn’t teleport away, so it’s not considered a negative result. Looks like 
we’ll have to wait. I’ve seen this before a few times. It won’t be long. 
Maybe five to ten minutes.” 


OceanofPDE:.com 


AS WE WAITED FOR MY MUTANT CAT TO EMERGE FROM HER BLOB, I 
examined my other loot. The fingerless gloves went onto my hands. Of the 
two weapons, I liked the feel of the cudgel more than that of the poker, 
which felt like it would bend and break the moment I hit something with it. 
I examined the cudgel’s properties. The game show host AI described it 
using a caveman voice. 

Toad Cudgel 

Big stick for bonking. Bonk toad. Bonk mob. Bonk girlfriend and 
drag back to cave by hair. 

I wondered if the metal pot was still out there. It’d be better than this 
bullshit. 

I placed my hand on the symbol branded onto my jacket. An infobox 
popped up. 

Goblin Pass. 

It’s a tattoo! On your forearm! Now you’ll never get a good job! 

Note: Pass tattoos cannot be hidden unless you purchase a coverup 
sleeve. Will show through any armor you may wear. 

Removes automatic goblin hostility. Allows for free passage through 
goblin-controlled territory in the dungeon. Warning: holding a Goblin 
Pass will cause natural goblin enemies, such as fairy-class creatures, to 
deal 20% more damage against you. Still, it looks kinda badass. 

I grumbled that the system didn’t give me a choice. It just burned it 
right onto me. I didn’t have any tattoos, and I’d never really wanted one. 
Most everyone I knew had plenty, but I’d never liked the idea. My old man 


had been covered in them, and it wasn’t ever something I associated with 
being cool. 

The black, leathery, and hooded nightgaunt cloak weighed almost 
nothing. It appeared to be made from the wing of some sort of demon 
creature. The skin was stretched between rows of long, body-length 
fingerbones. When I put the hood up, I noticed it had pointed ear things on 
either side. 

Enchanted Nightgaunt Cloak of Stoutness. 

The wearer of this cloak gains +4 to Constitution and becomes 
resistant to poison and ice-based attacks. In addition, the cloak adds 
Anti-Piercing resistance to all worn armor. It also makes you look like a 
dollar store Batman. Warning: if a Nightgaunt spies you wearing this, 
they probably won’t be too happy with you. 

“This is an extremely valuable cloak,” Mordecai said. “But the shirt is 
better. Much better.” 

Enchanted Trollskin Shirt of Pummeling. 

The wearer of this shirt gains +7 to the Regeneration skill. In 
addition, all melee-based damage debuffs such as Stun, Knockback, 
Disarm, and Out-of-Breath are negated. The shirt is also quite stylish. 
Maybe a little too stylish. Unlike most monster-skin apparel items, this 
shirt will not grant a negative reaction amongst trolls. In fact, lady 
trolls might just want to haul you away for some one-on-one time if 
they see you in this. 

“That shirt is one of the best under-armor garments for tanking,” 
Mordecai said. “A level-seven regeneration skill means you’re back to full 
health pretty quickly after taking damage. In as little as two minutes. 
Finding it was a lucky break. This is something that would be in a Platinum 
or Legendary box.” 

“You don’t have to tell me twice,” I said. I pulled off my jacket and 
slipped the short-sleeved shirt on. It felt cool to the touch and form-fitted to 
my skin. A couple notifications appeared. I put the leather jacket back on 
and then added the cloak. I felt a quick rush of power course through me as 
my constitution rose from five to nine. 

New achievement! Loot! 

You’re wearing something you found in the dungeon. 

Reward: You’re now a handsome son of a bitch. That’s reward 
enough. 


New achievement! Oooh, Magic! 

You’re wearing magical gear for the first time! You’re a wizard, 
Crawler! 

Reward: You’ve received a Bronze Adventurer Box! 

The box contained another torch and a pair of healing potions, leaving 
me with a total of six. I still didn’t have any pants. Or shoes. I was wearing 
a jacket, a cloak, and boxers. I shook my head. I examined the last item, the 
toe ring. 

Enchanted Toe Ring of the Splatter Skunk. 

Imbues wearer with +3 Strength and gives +3 to the skill Powerful 
Strike. Also, it’s a toe ring. It’s probably uncomfortable and it makes 
you look like one of those hippie assholes who sit around in a field 
juggling and hula-hooping all day. 

“Powerful strike is a good skill,” Mordecai said. “Each level multiplies 
your damage when you’re not wielding a weapon. So at level three, each 
kick or punch does three times the damage it normally would. With your 
Unarmed Combat skill and the Pugilism skill, your fists already do much 
more damage than either of those weapons. You might want to consider a 
monk class, which will enhance that further.” 

“So, I could be like a ninja?” I said. I sat down and slipped the toe ring 
on. It adjusted itself, sliding easily onto my filthy, bloody index toe on my 
right foot. Like the description warned, it was uncomfortable. I’d never 
been a jewelry guy. I hopped up and down, trying to get used to it. I felt my 
strength rise by 50%. 

“And just like that, you’re almost as strong as any human who has ever 
lived,” Mordecai said. 

I received another snarky achievement for putting on jewelry, but no 
reward. 

I started to fiddle around within my skills menu. Despite the heavy 
filtering, there was a lot of information in there. There was literally a skill 
for everything. The menu had a search box. I typed in Frogger, just to see 
what would happen. Growing up, my old man had an original, stand up 
Frogger video game machine from an arcade. I had spent hours and hours 
playing the game when I was stuffed in the basement. My mom locked me 
in there a lot. Whenever my dad had his friends over, they’d smoke and 


drink and get loud, and my mom didn’t want them “being a bad influence” 
on me. So instead I stayed downstairs with no television or internet and that 
damn machine. 

The top score one could get on an original machine was 99,990. The 
game never ended, so you could keep playing past that, and the score would 
cycle over and over. My record was 879,460. 

Sure enough, it popped up. 

Frogger — 1981 Video Game Cabinet Version (result hidden due to 
filters) 

Skill: 8. 

I grinned at that. I wondered why that skill was hidden by the filters, but 
things like Lacing Boots - Skill: 3 wasn’t. It probably only included skills 
useful in the dungeon. I doubted there would be a Frogger machine in one 
of these hallways. 

But that wasn’t true, was it? Assuming it hadn’t been tossed in a 
landfill, that old Frogger machine was down here somewhere. At least the 
atoms of it or whatever. This dungeon was literally made out of items built 
by human civilization. I sighed. It was hard to comprehend. 

“Really, Carl,” a new voice said. It was female, sultry yet pompous at 
the same time. “If you’re going to insist upon wearing that hideous cloak in 
public, you might want to do yourself the dignity of putting pants on first. I 
just can't fathom why Miss Beatrice hired you in the first place.” 

I looked wildly about for the speaker, expecting to find someone 
dressed like a medieval princess. 

Instead, all I saw was the cat. 


OceanofPDF.com 


“Un, Donut?” I SAID, LOOKING DOWN AT THE CAT. 

Mordecai stood beside me, mouth agape. 

Despite being nothing but a pile of goo just a few minutes earlier, the 
cat appeared to be exactly the same as before. Maybe she had gotten a little 
bigger, but not by much. Either way, she was still decidedly a cat. 

Except for the talking part. 

“First off, Carl, my name is ‘GC, BWR, NW Princess Donut the Queen 
Anne Chonk,’ and I’m going to have to insist you call me by my proper 
title. I will accept just Princess or even Princess Donut but not if we are in 
the presence of high company.” She looked at Mordecai as if he was 
something she had just vomited upon the floor. “I suppose Princess Donut 
will do for now.” 

“T see what’s happened,” Mordecai said after a moment. “You’re partied 
with her, so you can see for yourself. Pull up her stats.” 

I clicked on the party menu, and then I clicked on Donut’s stats. 

Strength: 11 

Intelligence: 11 

Constitution: 2 

Dexterity: 8 

Charisma: 25 

“What the hell?” I said. She was stronger and more intelligent than me. 
And her charisma was just ridiculous. “What happened?” 

“Her stats were all one. All except dexterity, which was always eight 
and charisma which was five. Whatever buff you gave her kept her race but 


changed her stats. Hmm let me look.... Yes, it’s like I thought. Look in her 
health menu. It shows conditions.” 

I clicked over, and under Buffs it read: 

Enhanced Growth. 

After an initial boost to four random stats, all additional levels will 
automatically grant +1 to Strength and Intelligence. Charisma will gain 
+2 per level. No additional stat points will be received upon level-up. 

“Wait,” I said. “So she’s getting four stat points per level instead of 
three?” 

“Yes,” Mordecai said. “And she doesn’t have to wait until she picks a 
class before they disburse. But that boost is a double-edged sword. She’s 
forever stuck with a constitution of two and a dexterity of eight unless she 
can find some gear that will enhance it or if she picks a race and class that 
changes it for her. But even then, the points will still distribute as 
indicated.” He grunted. “With a charisma like that, she should consider a 
bard-based class. Two points every level is going to add up fast. I’m 
immune to the effects of her charisma. Same with you and other crawlers. 
But all the other NPCs and mobs won’t be. For the first several floors, that 
number is huge. Bigger than you realize.” 

“But how can she talk? She’s still a cat!” 

“I am right here you know,” Donut said. “It’s quite rude to talk about 
me as if I’m not in the room. And if you must know, Carl, for me, I hear 
your speech as it should be heard. And you hear mine as that disgusting 
monkey grunting you call English. I imagine this other creature hears it as 
squeaks and vermin hisses. This whole translation system is quite elegant, I 
must admit.” 

“I’m gonna have to start the tutorial all over,” Mordecai said. “She’s not 
a pet anymore. She’s now classified as a regular crawler.” 

“Not necessary. I heard everything you said to my manservant,” Donut 
said. “Now wave your hand and grant me access to my prize boxes so we 
can get this farce rolling.” 

“Manservant?” I said. 

“He’s a little slow,” Donut said to Mordecai. “Intelligence of only three. 
Sad, really. But he’s been with the family for a while now, and I just can’t 
see myself letting him go.” 

“I’ve activated your menus,” Mordecai said. “Oh, wow.” He looked at 
me. “She received a Legendary Quadruped box for being the first cat to 


enter the dungeon.” 

I watched as a group of loot boxes lined up in front of her just as they 
had done with me. She only had five of them. Three bronze ones with a 
couple healing potions and torches. Next was a silver adventurer box that 
contained a book and a pile of pet biscuits. The note over the book read: 

Tome of Magic Missile 

Next came the legendary box. The symbol on the front was of a lion 
thing. Only a single item came out. A small, jeweled tiara. The cat-sized 
crown glittered with smoky, dark gems. The deep purple stone in the center 
swirled internally with clouds, as if the center was liquid. 

Enchanted Crown of the Sepsis Whore. 

“That sounds ominous,” I said. 

“Wait until you read the description,’ Mordecai muttered. The item 
disappeared into her inventory. The cat sat down and started to groom 
herself. 

“Are boxes custom tailored to the person?” I asked as I pulled up the 
party menu. I quickly found I couldn’t examine items in Donut’s inventory. 
Only items she had equipped. 

“Sort of,” Mordecai said. “You’ll receive items that can be used by your 
race, but not necessarily your class. So a human barbarian might receive a 
necromancer staff.” 

Donut glowed a bright red. 

Mordecai turned to the cat, raising his hand. “Ah, Princess Donut, I see 
you taught yourself the Magic Missile spell already. That’s good, good. In 
case you didn’t know, tomes will permanently teach you the spell, and 
scrolls will just cast it once. That other item you received is quite valuable 
and powerful. But it is also a very dangerous item. Before you decide to put 
it on, you should take special note that it...” 

Poof! The crown magically appeared on her head. 

Mordecai lowered his hand, sighing. 

“How the hell did she do that?” I asked. I’d had to manually put on my 
cloak and shirt. 

“She’s a quadruped, so she has a different user interface than you. She 
can perform many actions directly from her menu.” 

Now that it was equipped, I could examine the tiara’s properties. 

Enchanted Crown of the Sepsis Whore. 

Who?’s a dirty girl? You’re a dirty girl! 


This is a Fleeting item! 

This is a Unique* item! 

Imbues wearer with +5 Intelligence, grants the user +5 to the Good 
First Impression skill. All attacks, including magical attacks, now have 
a 15% chance to inflict the Sepsis debuff. 

Warning! (Seriously though. I’m going to say this again. 

WARNING! Read this shit before you put it on.) Placing this crown 
upon your head permanently places you within the royal line of 
succession for the Blood Sultanate on the ninth floor of the world 
dungeon. Removing this item will not remove this status. Royal 
members of the Blood Sultanate will be required to slay the Sultan and 
all other members of the royal family before descending to the tenth 
floor. You’ll only want to wear this if you’re a blood-thirsty, raging 
psychopath. 

“That...” I began. “I’m not so sure you should’ve put that on.” 

“It’s purple,” Donut said. “Purple is my color. Do you know how many 
purple ribbons I’ve won? Do you know what it takes to get a purple 
ribbon?” 

“What does fleeting mean?” I asked Mordecai. “And why is there an 
asterisk by ‘unique?’” 

Donut had received a few more boxes from learning the spell and 
putting on the tiara. It was all low-tier potions and torches. She sorted 
through the items now, hissing with displeasure each time she received 
another torch. 

“Fleeting means it’ll crumble to dust the moment she takes it off. If that 
happens, another crown will be generated somewhere else in the dungeon. 
Now that it’s on her, don’t let her take it off. If another crawler gets the 
crown, it’l] just be one more person you’ll have to kill to get off that floor.” 

The idea of having to fight actual people hadn’t occurred to me. Would 
that really happen? The thought of it made me sick. I looked at Donut. 

“What the hell am I going to do now?” I asked, shaking my head. The 
tutorial was over, and I knew it. We’d have to go back out there. 

“It’s quite simple, really,” Donut said. “You need to assist me to this 
18th level, so I can exit this hellscape and resume my rightful place as liege. 
I am assuming this rat creature won’t be able to travel with us,” she lifted 
her paw and pointed it at me, “so you have been promoted from manservant 
to bodyguard. Congratulations, Carl.” 


Princess Donut has named your party The Royal Court of Princess 
Donut. 

Princess Donut has changed your title to Royal Bodyguard. 

Princess Donut has changed her title to Grand Champion Best in 
Dungeon. 

“Really?” 

Mordecai laughed. “She has the highest combined stat total, so she’s the 
designated party leader. As such, she has more control over the party menu. 
Don’t worry. The titles don’t mean anything.” He paused, suddenly serious. 
“Listen up, kid. She’s quite a bit more powerful than you are right now, so 
you’ll want to stick together. At least until you get to the ninth floor. That... 
That will be a challenge. You can always leave the party. That crown is on 
her head, not yours.” 

Donut walked up to the door and scratched at it. It opened on its own. 


OceanofPDF.com 


Time to Level Collapse: Four days, 20 hours. 


AND WITH NO ADDITIONAL FANFARE, WE LEFT THE GUILD AND STRUCK OUT 
into the dungeon. 

“By the way,” Mordecai said as we left. “Now that I’ve successfully 
trained both of you, if you enter any additional training guilds, you’ll be 
transported back to this room. I’m now your registered guide, so feel free to 
come back here if you have any additional questions. You’|l lose access to 
me once you hit the fourth floor.” 

“Yeah, take care,” I said. “Good luck out in the universe once this is 
over.” 

Mordecai looked at me sadly. “Yeah, good luck to you, too.” He grasped 
my jacket and met my eyes and then whispered, “It’s not worth it, no matter 
what they tell you. Not until floor 12, and even then, negotiate as much as 
you can. Remember that.” 

He slammed the door, and my mind reeled. What did that mean? Was he 
saying it was better to die than to take whatever exit they offered on floors 
10 and 11? Did that even matter? Floor 10. Who was Mordecai kidding? 
Three million people had died in this place in the very first hour. I wasn’t 
expecting to survive until the next floor opened up.. 

“Okay,” Donut said, “here’s what we’re going to do. You’re going to 
walk that way, and if we get attacked by anything, you protect me.” 


“Wandering aimlessly? That’s the plan?” I asked. 

“We have approximately 29 hours before these aliens air their television 
show. That means we have 29 hours to do something absolutely spectacular. 
But,” Donut added, “first we need to find you some pants. I will not be 
presented to the universe in such a fashion. I can just see the comments now 
on the Martian social media.” She mocked an alien voice. “‘Beautiful cat, 
Blorg. But why isn’t her bodyguard wearing pants?’” 

I sighed and started moving down the hall. We headed back the way 
we’d come before, back toward the main thoroughfare. This entire area was 
scorched black from the explosion of the goblin dozer. The smear of blood 
from where the dozer had run over the goblin remained. Everything else 
had been destroyed in the explosion. 

“You know, you’re not wearing pants, either,” I said after a moment. 

“Nor am I wearing a cloak that makes me look like I won a participation 
trophy at the special needs comic con, Carl. I’m a cat. Cats don’t wear 
pants. Don’t be so droll.” 

We came to the conjunction, and I warily looked around the comer. I 
didn’t see anything. This hallway was lit by torches, not the green lichen, so 
it was much brighter. It seemed completely abandoned in either direction. 
We stepped out into the wide tunnel. 

“Now, I know your simple mind is telling you to just keep...” 

“Okay,” I said, turning on the cat. “I was struggling with this decision 
earlier, but this... transformation... or whatever has happened has made this 
much easier. I’m going to go that way,” I pointed east, “and you’re going to 
go any other direction than that. Good luck.” 

“What?” Donut said. “You want to separate? I don’t understand.” 

“Look,” I said. “Mordecai said you’re a lot more powerful than I am. 
Great. That means you’ll probably be okay. More okay than me.” I leaned 
in. “But I would rather just get this over with and get squished by a goblin 
bulldozer than spend another second dealing with this bullshit. Cats are 
assholes. I get it. But do you know why people like cats, despite their 
asshole-ness? It’s because they don’t fucking talk. If they did, and they were 
all like you, they’d all be extinct because we’d have killed you all by now.” 
I pulled up my menu and tried to figure out how to remove myself from the 
party. 

“Wait, Carl, wait. Don’t. I’m sorry. Wait.” 

“What?” I said. 


The cat sat on the floor. She seemed to deflate. “I’m sorry. You’re right. 
I... It’s just... Have you ever woken up from a long dream, one where 
you’re one thing, and now that you’re awake, it takes you a moment to 
realize that’s not who you really are?” 

I just looked at her. 

“Okay, when I woke up back there, I had all my memories, of all my 
time being me. Of sitting in that window, looking outside, of watching 
television all day long, of all the hours in the carrier in back of Miss 
Beatrice’s car, traveling to those horrid yet wonderful shows, of being told 
what a princess I am. And then, suddenly, my mind looked back on all of it, 
and I understood what had happened. I am a grand champion, Carl. I’m 
supposed to act a certain way. But sitting in your lap, watching you get 
fragged over and over in Call of Duty? I like that, too. I mean, you really 
suck at that game, but you keep playing. I didn’t realize it at the time, but I 
liked that.” 

“So, what are you saying? That you’re not a crazy, stuck-up, asshole 
princess?” 

“Oh, I am a princess, Carl. But Pll try not to be too much of an asshole. 
I need you. And you need me, okay? Look, I’m really scared here. I don’t 
want to be alone. And I know you, and you don’t want to be alone, either. I 
saw you the other day, looking at the map on your computer, and then at 
those apartments on Craigslist.” 

“What do you mean?” I asked, but I knew exactly what she meant. 

“There was that day when the passes were clear. You could’ve taken me 
back to Miss Beatrice’s parents, but you didn’t want to. You were looking at 
apartments, making sure they allowed cats. You were thinking about 
catnapping me.” 

I just looked at her. It’s exactly what I had been doing, but I hadn’t even 
admitted it to myself. 

“It wouldn’t have worked, by the way. Her dad would’ve gotten me 
back right away.” 

I sighed. That was true, too. Bea’s dad was a lawyer out of Yakima. 

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s keep moving.” We kept travelling. The minimap 
showed the cardinal directions, and we headed east. I kept an eye out for 
any special rooms or other dots. 

“Yeah, anyway, I’m not wearing pants because you decided to jump out 
the window,” I said after a few minutes of us traveling in silence. That 


reminded me, and I felt in my pocket. Yes! A pack of Marlboro Reds. I still 
had half a pack left. I still had my Zippo. I’d also received a lighter from 
that goblin box, so now I had two. I had the urge to pull the pack out right 
then, but I knew I probably wouldn’t get any more cigarettes ever again. I 
had to conserve them. 

“Tf I hadn’t jumped out the window, we’d both be dead right now.” 

“Why did you jump, anyway?” 

“Stop,” Donut hissed. “There’s something down there.” 

We’d passed by multiple conjunctions and alleys. Everything in this 
maze was featureless so far. I saw no signs of life whatsoever. We stopped 
now by a thin alleyway, similar to the one that had hidden the goblin dozer. 
It was completely pitch black in there. On my map, the alley led down to 
another conjunction, then several more tributaries. The map only revealed 
so much of the area, so I couldn’t see past there. 

There were no red dots or anything like that. Not that I could see. 

“What is it?” 

Donut leaped up off the ground and landed on my shoulder. I 
suppressed an oof. She wasn’t nearly as heavy as she used to be when she 
did that. Then I remembered my strength was much higher than before. She 
curled her long, fluffy tail around my neck and glared. A low growl escaped 
her throat. 

“What? What do you see?” 

Thwump! Thwump! 

Two bolts shot out of Donut’s eyes, one after another. They were like 
laser blasts from a sci-fi movie. I was so surprised that I almost fell 
backward. Instead, I just stumbled a little. I remembered she had that Magic 
Missile spell. 

The first bolt hit the rocky wall of the alley, sending bits of rock and 
smoke showering. The second was better aimed and traveled the length of 
the tunnel before splashing against something that howled with pain. It was 
too far away for me to see what it was, but the moment the missile hit it, a 
red dot appeared on my map. 

“Okay, there it is. Go get it,” Donut said. 

“Yeah, maybe next time wait until we know what it is before we start 
randomly shooting at it. What if that’d been a person?” 

The creature made a deep rumble that was half bleat, half roar and 
started galloping down the alley toward us. Whatever it was, it was big. 


“That’s quite obviously not a person, Carl,” Donut said. 

Shit, shit, shit. The thing was really booking it now. 

“Shoot another missile!” I said 

A third magic missile shot forth from Donut, this one hitting it directly 
in the chest. The creature staggered and cried out in pain, obviously hurt. 
But it kept coming. In the moment it was lit up by the pulse blast, I could 
distinctly see what it was. I got a good enough view for the info box to pop 
up. 

Bad Llama. Level 3. 

It’s a llama, but it’s bad. If he were human, he’d be covered in 
prison tattoos and would be hanging out in front of the Circle K hitting 
on 14-year-old girls. They might be willing to sell you something if you 
have good stuff to trade. 

You won’t want to get hit by their spit. 

“Goddamnit, Donut!” I cried, jumping back from the alleyway entrance. 

A red, baseball-sized ball of spit blasted out of the hallway and 
splattered across the floor. It sizzled where it hit, and the stones of the rocky 
floor turned crimson. 

Lava. The llama was shooting lava out of its mouth. 

I balled my fists. Mordecai had said my punches were more powerful 
than either of the weapons I had, but the idea of fighting a fucking llama 
with my bare hands was ridiculous. I had the fingerless gloves I’d received 
in a loot box, but they offered no armor protection. 

“You’re gonna have to shoot it again!” I said. 

“T can’t!” Donut said. “I’m out of mana!” 

“Didn’t you get a mana potion?” I cried as the llama emerged. 

The damn llama was even bigger than I expected. It was as large as a 
horse. The creature had giant yellow buck teeth. It turned its scorched and 
tan-colored head to glare at me. One of its eyes had been blown off by the 
missile. Black and red ichor poured down the side of its face. It had the 
debuff Septic pulsing over its head. The powerful debuff was similar to 
poison. It worked faster, but it couldn’t be stacked, and unlike poison, it 
could be healed with a simple healing spell or potion. 

The llama’s health was already about 3/4's gone. Donut howled and 
leaped off my shoulder as the llama reared back to spit again. The thing’s 
neck glowed red. 


I hit it with an uppercut and a left hook right in the face. I felt bones 
crunch. My left hand exploded in pain, and I didn’t know if the crunching 
bones were in the llama’s face, in my hand, or both. Probably both. 

It grunted with surprise and unleashed its gob of spit just as his head 
turned away from me. I felt the heat of the lava ball sail over my shoulder. I 
stepped in and punched it again. A right jab directly in its glowing throat. 

The creature dropped like a sack of hammers. It tried to cry out, but 
nothing but gurgling came out. I jumped back as the fur and skin around its 
neck erupted in red flames. 

I had ruptured whatever the hell was in its throat that made the lava. 

The llama continued to gurgle and make pitiful sounds as its health 
plummeted. A moment later, it was dead. 

The lava around its throat started to rapidly cool, filling the hallway 
with an acrid, sulfur-like stench. 

My left hand was broken. It throbbed in pain, but thanks to my 
regeneration ability, it was already knitting itself. I pulled up my health 
menu and looked at the pie chart. I could zoom in on that specific injury, 
and it gave me a detailed explanation on everything that was happening. 

My regeneration skill did a triage of my injuries, healing the most 
important items first. It was just my left hand along with some abrasions on 
my right hand. I could adjust the menu and give healing priority to other 
parts too. After a minute, I was good as new. 

“I dealt 71% of the damage,” Donut said, “It’s telling me I get to pick 
loot first.” 

The corpse blinked, and an info box popped up. 

Lootable Corpse. Bad Llama. Level 3. Killed by Crawler Grand 
Champion Best in Dungeon Princess Donut with an assist by Crawler 
Royal Bodyguard Carl. 

Poor Llama skin. 

Uncooked Llama steaks X2. 

Baggie of trailer park-grade meth X2. 

The skin disappeared from the inventory menu along with one of the 
steaks. The corpse’s skin disappeared, leaving just a gross pile of muscle. 

“Your turn,” Donut said. 

“Meth?” I said. I laughed at how absurd it was. I added the rest of the 
items to my inventory. My inventory added two new menus: Food Items 
and Pharmaceuticals. 


I had a couple new achievements. One for looting a corpse and one for 
sharing experience. I received a pair of Bronze Adventurer boxes. Donut 
got the same, plus a couple additional achievements for casting her first 
spell and finally killing something, along with killing a mob higher level 
than herself. 

“That was no good,” Donut declared as we continued our trek east. 
“Sloppy. You can’t be injuring yourself every time we get into a minor 
tussle.” 

“Minor tussle? We need to be more cautious,” I said. “We can’t just 
blindly stumble around.” 

“No, we need to level up,” Donut said. “And we need to do it quickly. 
I’m starting to think this main road is not the best choice for traveling or 
fighting.” 

She jumped down a random hallway and I had to rush to keep up. A few 
turns later, and we were far from the main thoroughfare. Here, the walls 
were tighter and the ceiling much lower. The whole place glowed green 
from the lichen on the walls. Some of the halls curved and met dead ends. 
But thanks to the map, which built itself as we went, it was easy to keep 
from getting too lost. 

The whole place was eerily barren. Occasionally I heard a screeching 
noise coming from the distance, and once I heard something that sounded 
like a man screaming at the top of his lungs, followed by gunfire. But it was 
far away, and I couldn’t tell exactly from where. We traveled like this for 
what seemed like hours, not coming across anybody or anything except a 
few random tutorial guilds. And bathrooms. The bathrooms were 
everywhere. 

It was the strangest thing. There seemed to be a bathroom door about 
once every quarter mile or so. Each doorway was different, and it appeared 
the doors were taken from actual bathrooms in restaurants and bars and 
buildings from around the world. Some had the symbol for men or women 
on them. One had a hand-written sign in what looked like Korean. Another 
had a note saying it was for paying customers only. 

I opened the first four bathrooms we came across, and each one was the 
same inside. A silver toilet and a roll of toilet paper. No sink, no mirror. Just 
a toilet and barely enough room to sit down in. No matter how wide or thin 
the door was, the room was the same each time. After the third room, I 
began to suspect it was the same room. To test it, I took the roll of toilet 


paper and pulled it out, dipping the end into the bowl of the waterless toilet. 
The next one we passed, I opened it up, and sure enough, the toilet paper 
remained dipped in the bowl. 

After I closed the door, I had Donut open it up. She could open and shut 
doors just by looking at them as long as she was close enough. She opened 
the door I’d just been in, but this time it was a knee-high cubicle featuring a 
litterbox. 

“Oh good, I gotta wee,” Donut said, entering the room and shutting the 
door. She emerged thirty seconds later, trailing litter all over the place. She 
looked over her shoulder at me. “You should go. You look like you need to 
go.” 

What I really needed to do was sleep. The initial adrenaline rush from 
all of this was finally coming down, and I was exhausted. I’d only slept an 
hour or so before Pd woken up last night. Last night? It was barely five 
hours ago or so. In my health menu it listed me as Fatigued. It didn’t cure 
itself with my regeneration. We had to find one of the rest areas. Mordecai 
said they were all over the place. We could set up a temporary base of 
operations there and explore the area cautiously and deliberately. This 
aimless wandering was going to get us into big trouble sooner rather than 
later. 

A couple minutes later, we were beset by a group of level two rats. 
There were five of them, and the screeching, hissing creatures were about 
half the size of Donut. The monsters weren’t too big, but the bastards were 
huge for rats. They bit and scratched, and one even inflicted me with a 
Poison debuff that only lasted for a second before my cloak canceled it out. 

I ended up defeating them by punting them against the wall one by one. 
They hit the wall and exploded like water balloons. Their deaths were over- 
the-top, overly gory, almost like their bodies contained twice as much blood 
as they should. 

Donut had leveled up to two after the llama battle. It appeared we 
received experience equal with the percentage of how much we participated 
in the battle. But the number wasn’t exactly equal with how much damage 
we dealt. I suspected support activities such as tanking and healing also 
counted, though we didn’t have nearly enough data to figure out if that was 
accurate or not. It also appeared that simply being in a party with someone 
and present at the battle garnered a nominal amount of experience. With the 
rats, I received nearly enough to level me up to three. 


Donut, who hadn’t lifted a paw to help me, spent the next five minutes 
bitching about how her “mentorship” should’ve counted for more 
experience. 

The cat was definitely making an effort to be less abrasive, but she was 
still a cat. She had a reckless streak to her, and a quick mouth, often making 
quips before realizing what she’d said. But she was also showing very cat- 
like signs of affection, too. One time I stopped and leaned up against a wall 
to rest, and she spent the time purring and rubbing up against my legs. I 
looked down at her, and she returned my gaze. “What?” she said. 

By the time we finally found a safe room, we had participated in ten 
more skirmishes, all against rats and these large cockroach things called 
Scatterers. The bugs were the size of and shape of a loaf of bread. We didn’t 
receive any additional loot of interest except multiple rat pelts, and one 
cockroach dropped an item called a Scatterer Carapace which added itself 
to my Crafting Items menu. I killed every single one of them with my bare 
feet. I punted the rats and jumped on top of the cockroaches. The bug mobs 
crunched like potato chips under my feet. 

While I did most of the fighting, Donut now made an effort to fire one 
magic missile each fight from the safety of my shoulder. Her skill level in 
the spell went up to three. I spent a moment examining her stats. My view 
was limited, but I could see she currently had a 17 in intelligence, giving 
her 17 mana points. Each zap of her spell cost five mana points. For me, the 
spell points regenerated very, very slowly, making magic almost useless. 
Donut regenerated much faster, at about one point a minute. I didn’t know 
why she generated the points more quickly, but one a minute was still pretty 
slow. Most of these fights were decided in seconds. 

I hit level three and gained a skill called Foot Soldier, and a second one 
called Smush. 

The Foot Soldier skill increased the damage I dealt by kicking. 

The Smush skill was... something else. 

The voice reading the skill description was deeper, more throaty than 
usual. I could actually hear him breathing like he was a dude beating 
himself off while he said it. 

Smush: Skill Level 3 

Killing with your feet. Your bare, beautiful feet. 

Taking your bare foot, placing it on top of a living, conscious life, 
and then pressing lovingly down until that life ceases to be. Is there a 


more noble way to kill? 

The amount of pressure you can bring to bear upon an enemy with 
your unshod foot is increased by 10% with each level of this skill. 

I remembered the weird message I’d received before when I’d jumped 
on the goblin engineer. I’d thought it was just a throwaway joke, like most 
of the descriptions. But it seemed the Al—or whatever it was that controlled 
the game messages—really did have some sort of foot fetish. It was fucking 
weird. 

“I guess we’re not getting you shoes,’ Donut said after I made the 
mistake of describing the skill to the cat. 

“Yes, we are. As soon as possible,” I said. 

“Tt sounds to me like the computer fancies you,” Donut said. “Or your 
feet, at least. We’ll need to take advantage of that. If the system likes us, 
then maybe it’ll go easier on us.” 

“It makes me uncomfortable,” I said. 

“Being eaten by a bugbear makes me uncomfortable, Carl. So if your 
boyfriend ogling your tootises keeps these easy-peasy bugs coming at us 
instead of more of those lava-spitting llamas, then you better buck up, get 
over your human male privilege, and take one for your princess.” 

“Take one for my princess,” I muttered as she cackled with laughter. 

I saw the safe room glowing green on the edge of the minimap, and we 
angled our way toward there as we continued to argue. 

The Scatterers were becoming more frequent, and I knew the main nest 
had to be nearby. At least I hoped that was what was happening, and that 
Donut wasn’t right. A single level four cockroach scuttled away at our 
approach, disappearing toward a large, round cavern that was just past the 
entrance to the safe room. We didn’t pursue it, choosing to head toward 
safety. 

We entered the safe room. 


OceanofPDF.com 


ENTERING SAFE ROomM. 


We entered the room, and both of us stopped at the entrance, gaping. 

“What is this magical place?” Donut asked, jumping from my shoulder, 
her tail swishing about with excitement. “That’s the biggest cat tree I’ve 
ever seen!” 

“Its not a cat tree,” I said. “It’s the playground.” 

We were in a fast food restaurant. It was almost like a McDonald’s, but 
instead of everything being red and yellow, it was white and blue. The 
playground with the massive slide and tunnel system and ball pit were 
straight out of my own childhood. The signs on the walls were in a weird 
language, Polish maybe. Pictures of plastic toys from some cartoon movie 
indicated this month’s prize inside their off-brand happy meals. I couldn’t 
remember the movie’s name, but I recognized the hippopotamus and ferret 
thing. The movie was new, just released. 

They had taken a complete, intact fast food restaurant from some 
random country, and placed it here underground. 

We’d come in through a main entrance. Large windows surrounded the 
empty restaurant, but the glass showed nothing but solid wall beyond. Three 
large screens stood directly above the counter where the menu would 
normally be. 

But instead of a menu, the screens contained information about the 
game in Syndicate common language. Donut bounded toward the play area, 


disappearing into the colorful children’s maze while I read the screens. 

The first was a countdown until the level collapse, which was in four 
days and 17 hours. The line below that read: 

Countdown until the premiere of Dungeon Crawler World: Earth. 

23 hours, 42 minutes. 

Remaining Crawlers: 

4,322,395. 

I blinked at that. Holy hell. It had been 10 million just a few hours 
before. As I watched, the number just kept going lower and lower. 

I looked down at my feet, which were bloody and covered in bits of bug 
chitin and that white goo that came out of the bigger ones. We’d been lucky 
so far. We’d found some good gear and had survived several attacks. 
Weren’t these other people working together? It seemed like too many 
people had died. I shuddered. 

I swallowed and continued to examine the signs. 

The next screen over read: 

Leaderboard: 

Leaderboard will populate upon collapse of the third level. 

The third screen read: 

Welcome to the Safe Room. You are on the First Level. 

Rental Rooms currently available: 20 

Rental Room price: 0 gold. 

Personal spaces will become available for purchase on the fourth 
level. 

Food is available at this location. 

Rooms available? I looked at the minimap, expanding it to fill my 
screen. The restaurant had three exits. There was the door we’d come in 
through, a second door on the opposite wall that had a dotted line on the 
other side and an X over the door. I mentally clicked on it, and a box 
popped up. 

Personal Spaces are not yet available. 

That made it sound like I could buy an actual house or base of 
operations here. But if the floors kept collapsing, did that mean I’d have to 
buy a new one each floor? 

Through the third door, which would’ve normally led outside, I could 
instead see a small hallway flanked by ten tiny rooms on each side. Mini 
hotel rooms, each no bigger than a closet. Sleeping spaces. 


That’s when I noticed the white dot on the map. I startled, realizing 
there was a creature standing right next to me, just behind the counter. I 
waved away the map and looked. A furry creature with a paper hat stood 
there, barely taller than the counter, which explained why I’d missed him. I 
examined his properties. 

Tally — Bopca Protector. Level 63. 

Caretaker of this saferoom. 

This is a Non-Combatant NPC. 

Bopca Protectors are magical, gnome-like creatures who exist solely 
to watch over Safe Rooms. They do everything from scrub the toilets to 
prepare your food. They are surly, smelly, and they never wash their 
hands. 

I cautiously approached the counter. The hairy dwarf didn’t move, like 
he was a statue. His hair was brown, but it had an odd, almost green tinge to 
it. The creature had so much hair on his face that I could only see his black 
eyes and his bulbous nose, which was covered with angry, red veins. He 
smelled vaguely of wet moss. He wore a blue apron, a plain paper hat, and 
he had a nametag that read, “Tally.” 

“Hi there,” I said. 

“Do you wish for food?” he said, his voice louder than I expected. The 
creature had a Slavic accent. Not quite Russian, but close. 

“Uh, what do you have?” I asked, looking back up at the menu board, 
which hadn’t changed. “Is there a list somewhere? Sorry, I’m new here.” 

“Tally knows you are new here. This dungeon has just opened. It 
opened without warning, so Tally is not ready. But I am ready enough to 
make most food for human crawler. Tally is prepared, has been preparing 
for many of your years to make food for human crawlers.” He leaned, 
raising up on his toes to look at Donut who was bouncing about in the ball 
pit. “I am not prepared for cat. But I have milk. Is better than pet biscuit.” 

“Actually, she really likes yogurt,” I said. “I’m not supposed to give her 
too much. Bea gets...” I paused. “Cats need meat to survive.” 

“Will you be renting room?” The creature barely moved a muscle when 
he talked. It unnerved me. 

“Yes,” I said. “I know our time is limited, but I need to sleep.” 

“T shall give yogurt to cat. I will have meat for cat when you wake. But 
I can make food for you now if you wish.” 

“Sure,” I said. “You really have yogurt?” 


“Yes. What is it you wish for?” 

I realized, at that moment, that I was starving. “Is there anything you 
recommend?” 

A pause. “You wish me to make food of my choice?” 

“Yeah,” I said. “Why not? As long as it’s not any sort of fish. I’ve had 
enough fish to last two lifetimes.” 

Tally nodded by barely moving his chin. “What is your spice tolerance? 
One to five?” 

“Uh, are we talking human spice tolerance? I like spicier, so four. But 
only if it’s on a human scale.” 

“Tt is a human scale. Now sit. Open boxes. Wait. Tally will bring you 
food, then you sleep.” He placed a fast food cup and a small paper bowl on 
the counter and then nodded at a row of self-serve soda machines before 
turning and waddling toward the back. 

My choices at the soda machine were something called Hoop Cola, 
water, milk, vodka, and something called Warka, which I determined to be 
beer after I tapped the lever. I was tempted by the beer, but I went with 
water. I filled the little bowl with water as well. I took a sip, and I was 
surprised at how cold, how pure it tasted. I shook my head and sat at a 
booth. 

Pd received multiple boxes, including a silver Adventurer Box for 
finding my first safe room. I spent the next several minutes sifting through 
the mostly useless loot. Potion, potion, torch, bandages—that was new. 
They stopped Bleed effects. I didn’t know if my troll skin shirt stopped that 
or not. 

It was all the same stuff except for a silver ring I found in the silver box. 
The ring gave me +1 to my constitution, bringing the stat up to 10. 

Donut jumped up on the table while we waited. She drank a bit while I 
finished examining my loot. She had several boxes as well, including a gold 
magic item box she’d received for being one of the first 100 crawlers to 
level Magic Missile up to level three. 

In the box was 25 potions of mana restoration and a collar charm. The 
charm was a little silver butterfly. Donut squeaked in delight when she 
received it. It even had a little ring on it so it’d easily attach to her collar. 
The charm jingled when it moved. 

I shook my head. The game really was tailoring the prizes toward the 
crawler. 


“You don’t want to wear a damn bell around your neck. Do you know 
why people put them on cats? So the birds and squirrels can hear them 
sneaking up on them.” 

“Tt’s adorable,” Donut announced as the charm poofed onto her collar 
ring. “And I am wearing it.” 

I examined the charm’s properties. 

Talisman of the Slate Butterfly 

Those who remember and commemorate the sad tale of the Slate 
Butterfly are given a boon by the fairies of the world. That story even 
made me cry. 

Adds +4 to the Light on Your Feet skill. Adds +1 to Intelligence. 
Winged fairies will no longer be automatically hostile toward you. 

I had no idea what the tale of the Slate Butterfly was, but I had to admit 
it was a good item. But was it worth the extra noise we would make? I 
didn’t know. I wasn’t exactly the king of stealth, either. 

The Light on Your Feet skill simply meant she’d be able to pounce 
higher and farther. She was already a three in the skill when she’d received 
it, so the charm made her a seven. The moment she put it on, she went 
bounding back toward the play area and jumped all the way to the top of the 
plastic tubes, a leap that was twice as high as she’d been able to go before. 
She spent the next ten minutes with the zoomies, rushing around the play 
area like she had when she was a kitten. 

Shit, that had been what? Four years ago? 

“Hey,” I called. “Be careful! Don’t forget you still gotta land!” 

Tally emerged from the kitchen holding two trays. He waddled from 
around the counter and placed them both on the table. “Eat.” 

Donut had a simple bowl filled with white yogurt. She returned to the 
table and sniffed it suspiciously. 

“What is this?” I asked, poking at my food with a plastic fork. It 
smelled delicious. 

“Murgh Vindaloo, spice level four. Boneless chicken cubes simmered in 
velvety sweet and sour vindaloo sauce. Also potatoes and other spices. It is 
on top of biryani rice, and I have also made garlic and spinach naan. I 
apologize I do not have lamb. They took my lamb for a mob in preparation 
for the second floor.” He turned to Donut. “Also, Your Royal Highness, I 
have special ordered a fresh salmon for your meal upon waking. I will have 
it properly prepared and diced and garnished for you later.” 


“Your highness?” I said. 

“Thank you, Tally.” Donut said. “Oh, and Tally?” 

“Yes, Your Highness?” he asked, bowing slightly. 

“Please make sure Carl and I have the best appointed room for our 
convalescence this evening. That’ll be all.” 

“I’m pretty sure they’re all the same,” I said. “Also, you don’t want a 
room of your own?” 

“Of course, Your Highness,” Tally said and turned away. 

I looked at the cat, and she blinked and tilted her fuzzy head, her 
approximation of a shrug. “It’s not my fault he sees me as royalty.” 

I took a bite of the food, and I immediately forgot everything else in the 
world. It was literally the most delicious thing I had ever tasted. I’d never 
been a huge Indian food fan, but holy shit. It was just the right level of heat. 
I devoured it in minutes. 

Tally had returned to his post at the counter and remained there, 
unmoving. 

“Dude,” I said. “This was the best thing I’ve ever eaten!” 

He nodded slightly. 

“Are you going to be in all the safe rooms?” 

“No,” he said. “When this floor collapses, I will move to a random floor 
in the dungeon. When that floor collapses, I will move down until I am no 
longer needed.” He didn’t elaborate further. 

“Well, I’m thinking we’re going to stay here the next couple of days,” I 
said. I fought the urge to lick the plate. Could he really make anything in 
the world? 

The world is gone. 

A wave of sadness washed over me, unexpectedly. I took a deep breath. 
I pulled out the pack of cigarettes from my pocket and was about to light 
one when a loud, but firm, “Nope,” from behind the counter made me put it 
away. 

“We can’t stay here,” Donut said. “We need to keep moving.” 

“I have an idea,” I said. “I think there’s a nest of those Scatterer bugs 
just next door. I say we spend our time here and try to clear out the nest. 
Surely we’ll get some experience. Once the entrances to the next level 
down show up, we’ll go searching for a staircase. But until then we have a 
spot to sleep, a supply of good food, and a nearby source of experience. I 
think this is a good place.” 


“Okay,” she said after a moment. “But we need to come up with a 
snappy way to kill them. Something exciting, yet cute. Something with zest. 
I want on that show, Carl.” 

“We’re not getting on the show,” I said. 

“Weren’t you paying attention? Millions of followers! Loot boxes! We 
need to get on that show. Maybe we need a catchphrase.” 

I sighed. 


OceanofPDF:.com 


Time to Level Collapse: 4 days, 3 hours. 


I SLEPT MUCH LONGER THAN I PLANNED. THE ROOMS WERE SMALL, BUT NOT 
claustrophobic like the dungeon bathrooms or the racks in a Coast Guard 
cutter. The bed was more comfortable than I expected. The white cotton 
sheets smelled brand new and faintly like laundry detergent. And while the 
halls of the dungeon were humid and stuffy, the temperature in the rooms 
was a bit chilly, just how I liked it. Donut insisted upon sleeping in the 
room with me. As usual, she slept on my neck. 

I didn’t dare take off my shirt or cloak, though I knew I was supposed to 
be safe. Once my head hit the pillow, I was out. I didn’t dream, wasn’t 
haunted by nightmares like most nights. 

I awakened feeling refreshed and full of energy. I looked at the 
countdown time, astonished that Pd slept 10 hours straight. I hadn’t slept 
that long without waking in at least five years. It took the literal end of the 
world to finally give me a full night’s rest. 

Donut yawned deeply and rolled onto her side as I sat up. “Go back to 
bed,” she said sleepily. “I need several more hours. That is an order from 
your princess.” 

“Get up,” I said. “Tally is making you food, remember?” 

That perked her up. 


The bathrooms in the restaurant had stalls for showers with soap and 
shampoo dispensers. There was also cheap, disposable razors and shaving 
cream. I finally peeled my clothes off and took a long, warm shower. I 
stayed until the water no longer ran black. I shaved. There were no towels, 
however, and I had to drip dry. 

My internal clock was already broken. I knew it was nighttime again on 
the planet’s surface, but when I saw the plate with bacon, eggs, and 
pancakes, I sat down and inhaled it all. It felt like breakfast time. It felt like 
a new day. 

I wondered about those who’d survived but didn’t go into the tunnels. 
How were they faring? Especially folks in the area of the winter storm. 
With no shelter, they’d have to build one from scratch. With no electricity, 
they’d have to make fires. And how much available food would there be? 
Probably not much. Even most of the animals like chickens and pigs were 
probably in coops and barns during the collapse. 

Across from me, Donut was eating her third plate of salmon pâté. 

Pd been deliberately avoiding looking up at the board, but I did now. 
4,148,111. How soon before my number would be ticked away? 

I tried asking Tally some general questions about the dungeon, but he 
refused to answer. He’d only answer questions directly relating to the Safe 
Rooms. 

“Tf I buy a personal space, will it transfer from level to level?” 

“Yes, it will,” he said. “And from safe space to safe space. Also, it’s best 
to buy all the accessories as soon as you can. Some of the items only 
upgrade when it goes down a level, so if you wait several levels before you 
purchase a crafting table, it won’t get as strong as one purchased earlier.” 

Soon thereafter, we left to hunt for some bugs. 

Outside, the hall was just the same as before. I looked warily about for 
red dots, but I didn’t see any of the bugs. I stepped a bit from the entrance, 
and I pulled out a cigarette and lit it, sighing deeply. I counted, and I had 
nine left after this one. 

“Really, Carl. Must you light that? You know how I feel about them.” 

“Jesus, Donut,” I said. “You’re worse than Bea.” 

“While Miss Beatrice and I don’t always see eye-to-eye on certain 
policy decisions of the household, I must agree with her on this one. 
Cigarettes are disgusting.” 

“Well, there are only nine left, so you won’t have to suffer...” 


I stopped dead as the trio of Scatterers rounded the corner, chittering as 
they approached. It was two level twos and a level four that was larger than 
the others. This third bug was almost the size of Donut. I wouldn’t be 
squishing this one with my foot. 

Scatterer Brood Guardian. Level 4. 

Cockroaches that have been baptized in rage and Monster Energy 
drinks. 

Like its smaller brethren, the Scatterer Brood Guardian is a giant 
bug who wants nothing more than to fuck you up. Unlike his little 
brother, these guys are dangerous. 

Shit. That doesn t sound good. 

I really didn’t want to fight this thing with my hands. Despite knowing I 
did less damage this way, I pulled out my toad cudgel and clasped it in my 
hand while Donut blasted the large cockroach three times with a magic 
missile. It hissed and rolled back a few times, its health knocked down by 
half. 

“Want me to hit it again?” Donut asked. “I'll have to down a mana 
potion.” 

“No,” I said, relieved that the missiles did so much damage. “I’ll take 
it.” 

I stomped forward with my foot, crushing both the smaller roaches. 

The brood guardian jumped back up and charged again. It was fast, but I 
was ready for it. It skittered forward, mandible-antennae things thrashing. I 
swung the cudgel down at its head. The rounded edge of my weapon 
bounced off the creature, which hissed and fell back. 

The hit didn’t appear to do much damage. Plus I had to awkwardly bend 
down to use it. I quickly switched to my poker to see if that’d be better. It 
charged again, and I stabbed with the iron stick. Its giant head knocked the 
poker right out of my hand, and it went flying. 

This place has the shittiest weapons. 

I stepped back and snap kicked, hitting the roach right under its little, 
semicircle head. It squealed. The kick did more damage than the magic 
missile. I swept forward, continuing to kick at it while it shrank back. 
Donut leaped off my shoulder with a hiss as I jumped in the air, coming 
down hard on its back. 

The cockroach exploded like a balloon filled with coconut pudding. 

“Goddamnit,” I said, looking at the goo on my feet. 


Donut crept forward and sniffed the remains. It didn’t leave anything 
lootable. 

“The level 4 ones aren’t too hard to kill,” Donut said. “Oh, he just 
smells awful.” 

I looked at the map. A couple curves of the halls led to the large room. It 
looked as if there was a door, too. 

“Okay, this is what we’re going to do,” I said as I went to retrieve my 
poker. The damn thing was useless, and I shoved it in my inventory. “We’ll 
wait until your mana refills, then we’re going to creep toward that main 
room and peek inside. If it’s too much to handle, we’ll run back here and 
rush into the safe room.” 

“The safe room door won’t open if mobs are outside,” Donut said. 

“We’ll be fast.” 

“That’s fine,” she said after a moment. “Just remember I can run a lot 
faster than you.” 

We ended up killing a couple dozen more of the level 4 Scatterers 
before we reached the door. We found a hit to the face with a magic missile 
just before it lunged would stun it. Pd punch down a few times and then 
stomp the head. Stomping the head almost always resulted in a critical hit. 
We received several vials of something called Scatterer Hemolymph, which 
looked like the white goo that came out of them when they died. The 
system identified it as an alchemy material. 

Every once in a while, the Scatterer would get inflicted with Sepsis 
when it was hit by the magic missile. When that happened, it would turn 
and try to run off. It would usually collapse and die after it took about thirty 
steps. 

Both Donut and I were level 5 when we got to the door. 

For me, the higher levels didn’t really mean anything. I received three 
Stat points every time I leveled, but I couldn’t distribute them yet. The only 
thing that helped was that my Pugilism, Unarmed Combat, Foot Soldier, 
and Smush skills were all level 5 now also. 

Because of Donut’s special buff, she was growing with each level up. 
Her strength was at 15. Now when she jumped onto me, I could feel the 
strength of her claws on my shoulder, even through the leather jacket and 
trollskin shirt. 

“Do you have any sort of slashing skill?” I asked. “You know, 
something with your claws?” 


“Of course I do,” Donut said. “My Slice Attack is at level four, and my 
Back Claw is also level four.” 

“Okay, good,” I said. “You can help if we get into trouble. Your strength 
is way higher than mine. You should get in there once your magic runs out.” 

The door at the end of the tunnel didn’t have any sort of official sign on 
my minimap. We crept toward it, going as silently as possible. Donut’s little 
bell jingled with each step. The room beyond was large and round shaped, 
probably about 1,500 square feet. The door itself was old and grimy with a 
doorknob that appeared to be hanging on by a single bolt. While it wasn’t 
labeled on the minimap, there was a paper sign attached to the door written 
in Spanish. It looked like some sort of official notice. The sign was old and 
weathered, and it looked like it had been there awhile. 

“No entrar,” I whispered, squinting at the sign. “I think that means do 
not enter. The next part ‘por orden del Centro de Salud,’ I don’t know. By 
order of something, I think. Can you read it?” 

Donut just looked at me like it was the stupidest question she’d ever 
been asked. 

“It doesn’t matter,” I whispered. “Okay. We’re cracking the door and 
looking inside.” 

The doorknob didn’t work, and the door wasn’t fully latched. I pushed it 
open as slowly as I could. The door screeched, and I cringed. 

The room was pitch black. I couldn’t see a damn thing. I heard rustling, 
so I knew there was something in there, but I couldn’t see what it was. 

Donut was standing completely still, her hair poofed out like when she 
was freaked out. 

“What do you see?” I asked. 

“There’s a lot of level one and two cockroaches in there. Lots and lots 
of them. But there’s other stuff in there, and I can’t tell what it is. It looks 
like piles of garbage. It smells like that bag you take with you on those days 
that other guy comes over to the apartment. You know, like socks. But 
hundreds of them. I don’t see anything else. Light a torch and throw it in 
there.” 

“Wait, what?” I said. “Are you talking about my gym bag? Some guy 
was coming over to the apartment when I was at the gym?” 

“Focus, Carl. Light a torch.” 

“Actually,” I said, “I have a better idea.” 


I couldn’t believe it. Actually, I could believe it. It was my own fault. I 
should have broken up with her long ago. I felt like an idiot. I also suddenly 
felt very reckless. 

“Get ready to run,” I said as I pulled out the stick of goblin dynamite. 
The red stick was wet and sticky on the outside, like it was sweating. I 
examined its properties. 

The game show voice whispered the description: 

Goblin Dynamite. 

This stuff is especially volatile. It’s so volatile, you probably don’t 
even need to light the wick to set it off. It’s so volatile, even loud noises 
might set it off. Keep it in your inventory until you’re ready to use it. 
Be gentle and don’t squeeze too hard or else you might get the... 

The AI didn’t speak for a good two seconds. 

BOOM! 

The AI shouted that last word in my head, and I almost pissed myself. I 
stood still for several moments, my heart thrashing. 

“You are a fucking asshole,” I whispered up at the air. 

“Okay,” I whispered to Donut. “Run now. I’m right behind you.” 

Donut scampered away as I carefully pulled my Zippo. I lit the long 
wick, which started hissing and popping like a sparkler. I tossed the 
dynamite into the room, throwing it as hard as I could. I turned, and I ran. 

I prayed it wouldn’t blow when it hit the ground. 


OceanofPDF.com 


Lat J 


IT BLEW WHEN IT HIT THE GROUND. 

Pd chucked the dynamite a pretty good distance into the large room, but 
I was only a few steps away from the door when it went off. Bam! The 
sudden, resounding concussion sent me flying. I hit the stone floor and 
bounced, sliding. The wooden door splintered, and a jagged hunk of wood 
ricocheted off my head. Stinking, billowing smoke poured through the 
entrance. Blood seeped from a cut deep in my scalp. 

My vision flashed red, and I received a DANGER LOW HEALTH 
warning. But it quickly abated. 

Behind me, I could hear the crackling of fire. I groaned, rolling onto my 
back as my health slowly kicked its way back up. I felt as if Pd been run 
over by that goblin bulldozer thing. 

Donut appeared above me, looking down. 

“Are you dead?” she asked. 

“No,” I said. “I don’t think so.” 

“Then you better get up. Let’s go see what we just killed.” 

I pulled myself up. Mordecai had said I’d be fully healed in two 
minutes, but two minutes was a long time when you were in pain. I had 
over a dozen healing potions now, but I didn’t want to waste one just yet. 
Not when I didn’t have to. 

The room glowed red. I pulled a torch from my inventory. I went to 
grab my lighter, but a box appeared above the torch, asking if I wanted to 
activate it. Weird. It was different than the dynamite. I mentally clicked Yes, 
and the torch lit on its own. A half-hour timer appeared and then faded as 
the bright, dancing flames engulfed the top half of the stick. 


I paused at the entrance, peering inside. The room looked as if it was the 
interior of a dumpster. Mountains of trash rose to the ceiling. Multiple small 
fires burned, giving it a pulsating, red glow. I tossed the torch in, and the 
room lit up further. 

I spied multiple bug pieces scattered about. My map populated with 
about three dozen x’s indicating bug corpses. I didn’t see any movement 
and red dots. I’d also received a ton of notifications, but they were all in the 
folder. 

“I think we killed them all. Do you see anything?” 

“Nope,” Donut said, strolling into the room. She stopped a couple steps 
in, looking distastefully at her paw. She’d stepped on something that looked 
like a dirty diaper. “The only thing that smells worse than trash is burning 
trash. You made a real mess of this place.” 

I followed her in. Donut jumped to my shoulder and immediately began 
licking her paw. I pulled up the notifications as we cautiously moved deeper 
into the room. The ceiling was higher than out in the hall, almost as tall as 
the main corridor. Piles of garbage filled the room, stacked at least 15 feet 
tall. A black garbage bag was ripped open at my feet, and I could see fast 
food wrappers, soggy Spanish-language magazines, and empty cans within. 

Why would they transfer garbage into here? 

I stepped gingerly as to not cut my feet, but I already felt as if my feet 
were changing, becoming less sensitive to the bare ground. Before, I knew 
this would be pure agony. It was still uncomfortable, but it was getting 
better. And it was happening much more quickly than it would have before 
all this happened. 

I’d received several skill upgrades just from that one move. Explosive 
handling. Dangerous Explosive Handling. Goblin Explosives. In addition, 
I’d received another Silver Goblin Box for killing more than 10 mobs with 
an explosive and a Gold Crowd Control Box for killing more than 15 mobs 
with the same attack. I’d received a huge experience bonus for that, taking 
me almost up to level six. 

I had one more notification, an achievement. I clicked on it. 

“Do you hear music?” Donut asked, pausing her cleaning to look up at 
the ceiling. 

New achievement! Boss Babe. 

You have struck a blow against a dungeon boss and caused damage 
to it. Here’s a fun fact. For crawlers who make it through the tutorial, 


this achievement is, by far, most often the last achievement they ever 
receive. Isn’t that interesting? 

Reward: Let’s wait a few minutes before we decide on whether or 
not to waste a prize on you. 

Shing! 

The door, which moments before had been blown to bits, magically 
reformed itself, locking us in the room. And just to hammer the matter 
home, silvery, glowing bars of metal appeared, locking it in place one by 
one with a clink, clink, clink. Three, skull-headed torches appeared, arising 
from the garbage heaps. 

At the far end of the room, something rustled. Something big. 

Music started playing, the sound filling the room. It was odd, intense, 
disjointed. It was like a harp playing with distortion with a heavy beat under 
it. 

The ground rumbled as the announcement came. 

Boss Battle! 

You have discovered the lair of a Neighborhood Boss! 

Put your game faces on ladies and gentlemen! Aaaand Here. We. 
Go! 

The AI was louder than usual. He sounded like an announcer at a 
Monster Truck rally. Normally, I was only really hearing this stuff in my 
head. This time it was through an actual loudspeaker. It echoed, shaking the 
walls and the piles of garbage. 

“Carl! Carl, I don’t like this! Take me from here immediately!” Donut 
cried. She jumped from my shoulder and started scratching at the door, 
which would not open. “Carl, open the door this instant!” 

I pushed myself against the back wall, waiting for the monster to 
emerge. 

“Donut, get ready!” I cried. “Just start pumping it with magic missiles. 
Use your mana potions to refill yourself!” 

Donut turned and panic-fired a missile, which bounced ineffectively 
against the sifting garbage pile. 

“Wait until we see what it is first!” 

The garbage exploded upward in a geyser of scorched trash bags. Bug 
parts and paper and food wrappers rained. A woman appeared, reaching into 
the air, screaming as she rocketed up like she’d been shot out of a cannon. 
She landed with a heavy crash twenty meters in front of us. 


Donut and I looked at one another. 

This was a human woman, about 35 years old, enormously fat. She 
wore a filthy and ripped t-shirt and no bra, and her skin was covered in 
open sores and scabs. A blue pair of sweatpants with the word PINK along 
the leg appeared to be stretched to their limits. Her black hair clung to her 
head in clumps. Like me, she wore no shoes. 

She was also 15 feet tall. 

She spied us cowering, and she screamed again. 

Everything stopped the moment she screamed. 

She froze, I froze, and Donut Froze. The only thing that kept moving 
was my mind, which raced. 

What the actual... 

A mugshot-style shot of my face in a round frame appeared floating in 
front of me, my name and level written under it. A second image of Donut 
appeared next to mine. 

A huge Versus splattered into the air. 

The Hoarder! 

Level 7 Neighborhood Boss! 

Trapped in her pile of rubbish, abandoned by society, the war inside 
her head has seeped out of her mind and infected both her body and 
her surroundings. Now nothing more than a garbage troll, the Hoarder 
is a horrific reminder of what can happen to those who fall out of the 
light! Protected by her minions, she’ll do anything to keep her precious 
stockpile safe! 

The woman’s title—The Hoarder—appeared in a stylized, metallic font 
with blood splattered around it. It was straight out of a fighting videogame. 
The moment the description ended, we could all move again. The giantess 
finished her scream and took a few steps toward us, garbage cascading 
around her with each step. 

Half of the woman’s face was burned to hell. She had a health bar over 
her head, and it was already 3/4's gone. I’d cheated the boss fight, killing 
her minions and hurting her before it even began. 

“Ayudame por favor,” the woman cried, reaching for us. Her voice was 
deep, beefy. Scared. The giant woman sounded terrified. “No se que esta 
pasando. Me duele el estómago. No se donde estoy. Por favor, tengo 
miedo.” 


“Shit, I think she’s a person,” I said. “Like she was in her house when it 
happened, and they turned her into this thing. We should help her.” 

“Yeah, that’ll be a no,’ Donut said. She shot a magic missile at the 
woman, who staggered as it exploded against her chest. The tattered 
remains of the woman's filthy t-shirt burned away, revealing pendulous, 
stretch-marked breasts that fell over a sagging, equally marred stomach. 
Her health barely nudged. 

“Ayudame!” the monster woman cried again. She made a gagging noise, 
and when she opened her mouth, a pair of level two Scatterers came out and 
charged at us, hissing. 

“This is really disgusting,” Donut said. She shot another missile at the 
woman, her third. 

“Take a mana potion,” I cried. 

I punted a cockroach and then stomped the second. A bag of garbage 
softened the blow, and it didn’t die. I stomped again. I cried out as a jagged 
hunk of metal tore my foot. The Scatterer hissed. Fuck this. I reached down 
and ripped its head right off the body. It came off with a pop, sending me 
flying backward. I hit the ground. 

My hand grabbed something. I thought at first it was a bicycle chain. 
No, a leash. A metal, chain-linked leash. The kind people used for really 
scary dogs. I snatched it up, pulling. It was still attached to the mummified 
remains of a large dog. It yanked out of the garbage like a monster leaping 
at me. Jesus Christ. I unhooked it and pulled myself to my feet. 

“Okay,” I said, looping the chain in my hand. The woman was scared, 
disoriented, and she obviously didn’t want to be here. But she was also 
vomiting killer cockroaches at us. Our only real choice was to take her out. 

“Distract her,” I said. I ran around one of the big piles of garbage, one 
of the ones holding the skull torches. Thwump. Donut fired a missile. 

“Hurry up!” Donut cried. “More cockroaches are coming!” The cat 
yowled. I saw her sail into the air, using her jump ability to land atop the 
pile I was running around. “Carl, this is not acceptable!” 

I rounded the corner, coming at the massive woman from just behind 
her. 

Another magic missile bounced off her chest. She staggered as two 
more Scatterers emerged from her mouth. She made this awful noise as they 
emerged, the sound of twenty people vomiting all at once. These were level 
four bugs, the larger brood guardians. 


“I can’t drink another potion yet,” Donut cried. “It won’t let me! I can’t 
fire another missile for a minute!” 

Shit. I didn’t think about what I did next. I rushed up the pile of garbage 
behind the woman. My feet screamed as I stepped on what felt like broken 
glass. I looped the metal leash through the handle. I ran, and I jumped onto 
her back, slipping the loop over her throat. I slid off of her wet, greasy 
body, grasping the end of the leash with all of my strength as it pulled taut 
around her. 

She gurgled and started thrashing about wildly. She stumbled backward, 
falling toward me. I scrambled to my feet, pulling. Her hands moved to her 
throat as she crashed down, splattering one of the Scatterers. Several other 
bugs filled the chamber now. Unable to easily get to Donut, they turned 
toward me while I pulled and pulled. 

“You’re doing it!” Donut cried. 

“A little help here!” The bugs made an angry chittering noise as they 
descended on me. The poor woman gurgled and thrashed. Her health moved 
downward, slowly but steadily. 

“My missiles aren’t ready yet!” 

A level four hissed and jumped at me. I kicked at it, and it scattered 
back. It lunged again and snapped, taking a bite of my leg. I screamed. 

“Use your fucking claws,” I cried. 

“She’s almost dead. You can kill them when you kill her!” 

“Goddamnit Donut,” I cried as a second cockroach bit me. 

I stumbled forward suddenly, landing between the two Scatterers. 

The chain had broken. I stared stupidly at the remains wrapped in my 
right hand. Fuck. 

Thwump. Donut fired a magic missile. It must have let her drink another 
potion. A cockroach hissed and died. Thwump Thwump. The last two went 
into the woman. She still wasn’t dead. 

With the chain still wrapped around my hand, I scrabbled up and 
punched the head of the closest of the brood guardians. Its face exploded, 
showering me with gore. A notification appeared and minimized itself. I 
turned as the second jumped at me. I fell onto my back as it hit my chest, 
mouth thrashing at my neck, its barbed legs scrabbling. I ripped at the 
creature, and one of its legs came right off like I was pulling it from an 
overcooked chicken. It squealed in pain as I pushed it off me. I leaped at it, 


pummeling its back with my chain-covered fist. It shrieked and died. My 
knuckles ached. I need brass knuckles. Real ones. 

I whirled around. 

The Hoarder lay on her back. Her health bar was all but empty. Steam 
rose off of her. The broken half of the leash remained around her neck. I had 
to finish her off now before she puked more bugs. I scrambled toward her. 

The woman’s eyes met mine as I raised my fist. 

“Lo siento si fui una mala persona,” she said. She closed her eyes as 
tears streamed down the non-burned side of her face. The woman only had 
one, misshapen tooth in her mouth. “No queria que mi hija se enfermara. 
No quiero estar en el infierno. Por favor. Por favor enviame a Jesus.” 

“Pm sorry,” I said. I punched her right in the nose. I felt it give 
underneath my fist, almost like it was an aluminum can wrapped in clay. It 
crumpled and crunched deep inside. I punched again. And again. My fist 
burned in pain, and I took my own damage with each blow. 

A minute later, and she was dead. 

Once again, the world froze. 

And the winner is, The Royal Court of Princess Donut! 

Our two mugshots filled my vision with Winner! stenciled over it. 

The remaining cockroaches all dropped dead. The door burst into 
shards. The music stopped. I leaned up against the stinking woman’s dead 
body, and I tried not to vomit bacon and eggs all over myself. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 12 ] 


“EXPLAIN THESE BOSSES TO ME,” I ASKED MORDECAI. I FINGERED THE 
chain wrapped around my right fist. 

We found a tutorial guild about a quarter mile from where we’d killed 
the Hoarder. Her body had only dropped a single piece of loot, a scrap of 
paper called a Neighborhood Map. It didn’t disappear when I looted it, and 
Donut was able to grab one for herself. 

The moment I touched it, about a square mile of my minimap 
automatically populated. I could zoom out and see all the red dots in the 
area—there were hardly any now. A couple of rooms with white dots 
appeared, and upon closer inspection, they were all tutorial guilds, all with 
Mordecai inside. Other than Donut, there weren’t any other blue dots 
visible in this area. 

There was, however, the X of a corpse on the very edge of the giant 
neighborhood square, right on the edge of the main corridor. This X was 
different. It was twice the size and pulsing. I hovered over it, and it said. 
Corpse of Crawler Rebecca W - Level 3. 

I didn’t know how long she’d been there or how she died, but she’d 
been killed less than 200 meters from the safe room. 

“Let’s go loot her corpse!” Donut said the moment she saw it on her 
map. 

“I want to talk to Mordecai first,” I said. I noted the location of the 
closest tutorial guild, and we angled over there. 

We opened the door to the guild to find Mordecai on his cot asleep. He 
had that photo of his brother cradled in his rat arm, and a pile of empty 


bottles littered the floor. The upset urn had been fixed, and the ashes all 
cleaned up. 

“There are six main types of bosses,” Mordecai said after we woke him 
up. His voice slurred ever so slightly, and I could smell the alcohol on his 
breath. “Neighborhood, Borough, City, Province, Country, and Floor 
bosses. There are also others, but those are called elites. You won’t need to 
worry about them just yet.” 

“So that thing we just fought was the most common type of boss?” 

“Yes,” Mordecai said. “And now you’ll know how to recognize their 
lair. It’1l probably be pretty obvious to you from now on. The neighborhood 
bosses are the easiest to kill and easiest to find.” 

“Easy,” I grumbled. My now-healed legs and fist still ached with 
phantom pain. “The one we fought, she was obviously a person from our 
world. Is it always going to be like that?” 

I hadn’t understood a word the woman was saying, and I was glad for it. 
I already had enough trouble sleeping. Mordecai didn’t answer for several 
moments, like he was trying hard to think of a proper response. “No, not 
always,” he said finally. “There will be a lot of... recycling... from 
previous iterations of the game. Some will be human stock, but most won’t 
be, or even human from this world. Or they will be human, but it won’t be 
as obvious.” 

“It was quite the disappointing battle,” Donut said. “A Bronze Boss 
box? That deserved a Legendary at least.” 

We hadn’t opened our boxes yet. 

“All bosses drop persistent loot, and their corpses stay there for any 
crawler to pick it up. A neighborhood boss will drop a neighborhood map, 
as you’ve discovered. Higher bosses will drop other public items, which 
I’m not allowed to tell you about yet. But,” Mordecai added, “the ones who 
actually kill the boss also receive an achievement and a Boss Box. Bronze 
for Neighborhood, Silver for Borough, and so forth. Also, as you can now 
see, there’s a bronze star after your name in all notifications. You’ll get a 
star after each boss you kill.” 

“Are there harder bosses on this level?” I said. “It’s not exactly fair. 
Most of us can level up, but we don’t get anything out of it until we can 
distribute the points.” 

“The first three levels won’t have any of the Province, Country, or Floor 
bosses, but there are some powerful bosses out there. They’re meant to be 


taken on by larger groups than just two crawlers. You can’t run from most 
boss fights, not on the early floors, so be careful.” 

“Okay, I’m opening my boxes,” Donut announced, turning away. 

I had 15 achievements and seven boxes to open, including that boss box 
and the Gold Crowd Control box. While Donut grunted with annoyance at 
all the torches and pet biscuits, I turned back to Mordecai. 

“Ts it normal? This number of achievements?” 

He nodded. “It’s not normal to get that Legendary box you did, but the 
first three floors are designed to drown you in low-tier loot and 
achievements and beginner skills. By the time you have to choose a class, 
you should have a good idea what’s going to work for you. Once you hit the 
fourth floor, the achievements are harder to come by.” 

“A spell book!” Donut cried when she opened her Bronze Boss Box. I 
didn’t have time to read the description before she glowed, indicating she’d 
already applied it to herself. 

A moment later, Donut cried with rage. 

Mordecai grunted with amusement. 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“Little one, you really must examine these items before you equip or 
apply them,” he said. 

Donut glowered. “It’s a stupid spell.” 

“Tt’s a very useful spell,” Mordecai said. He turned to me. “She just 
learned a spell called Torch. It makes a curl of light follow you around. The 
more she uses it, the more powerful it’ll become.” 

“Tt’s a good spell,” I agreed. 

I pulled up my notifications. I was awash with odd skills, like a skill 
level increase in dumpster diving and jump attacking. One was particularly 
interesting: 

You’ve gained a skill level! Iron Punch level 3. 

When simple brutality isn’t enough. Newsboy cap not included. 

With a skill like this, you can always find work as a 1920s street 
tough or a collection agent for a bookie. 

War gauntlets and lumpers will protect your hands and enhance 
your punching damage without losing your bare-knuckle bonus. Each 
level of this skill increases the enhanced fist damage bonus by an 
additional 10%. 


If I was going to utilize my bare knuckle skill, I really needed to find 
something to protect my fists. Breaking my fingers every time I punched 
something was not a good long-term plan. 

My lower tier boxes were all crap. The last three were more interesting. 


Bronze Boss Box (5/7) 
Tome of Wisp Armor 


Silver Goblin Box (6/7) 
Stick of Dynamite X5 
Lighter 
Satchel of Gunpowder 


Gold Crowd Control Box (7/7) 

Enchanted Spiked Kneepads of the Shade Gnoll Riot Forces 

Scroll of Confusing Fog X3 

Potion of Iron Skin X5 

“That tome is a good find, but it costs 5 mana to cast it, and you only 
have three right now. I would hold onto it until you decide what your build 
is going to be. It’s quite valuable. Or give it to the princess,” said Mordecai. 

“Pll take it,” Donut said, looking up at me. She didn’t even know what 
it was yet. I read the spell’s description. 

Wisp Armor 

Cost: 5 Mana 

Target: Self Only 

Duration: 5 minutes + 1 minute per level of spell. Requires 5 minute 
cooldown. 

Surrounds your body with tendrils of light. While ineffective 
against physical attacks, this spell negates 75% of incoming damage 
from magic-based attacks. Provides temporary immunity to mind- 
control effects. Higher skill levels increase both effectiveness and 
duration. It also makes you look all wispy and ethereal and druid-like. 
A great spell to have if you’re a club kid or trying to bang a vegan. 


A magic protection spell. That would be useful. I’d hold onto it for now. 

The Scroll of Confusing Fog filled the room with a mist that only the 
mobs could see, and the Iron Skin potion raised my physical armor by 
100% for five minutes. 

The real prize was the kneepads. While it wasn’t pants, I was happy to 
finally have something to put on my legs. I pulled them out of my inventory 
and examined their properties. 

Enchanted Spiked Kneepads of the Shade Gnoll Riot Forces 

Adds 10% Damage Reflect to all equipped armor. 

Cancels all Momentum-based attacks. 

Made of skin and fur and the spiky things from the back of Thorn 
Cadavers, these kneepads are both good protection and they’re stylish. 
Stylish, that is, if your knees are cosplaying as hedgehogs. 

The kneepads were built like slip on knee bracers, so I pulled my feet 
through each one and pulled them up. They appeared much too small, but 
they magically adjusted. The spikes were thin, needle-like. Each spear was 
about eight inches long. They were retractable and appeared to only 
magically pop themselves out when needed. I hoped I wouldn’t end up 
skewering my hand if I reached down to scratch my legs. 

“Remember when I said you looked ridiculous before?” Donut said, 
looking me up and down. “Mordecai, darling. Is there a worst-dressed 
award for the dungeon?” 

“Actually, yes. Sort of,” Mordecai said. “After the main episode tunnels, 
a hosted special comes on where a couple commentators discuss the state of 
the game. They usually do a segment on weird things happening in the 
dungeon. They do a lot of contestant profiles and such. Sometimes when 
people win boss fights, they’ll pull them out of the game for 10 minutes to 
do an on-camera interview. The show is almost as popular as the official 
program, though they’ ll never let you watch this one.” 

Donut’s eyes got big as saucers. “They interview people?” She looked 
at me. “Carl, we need on that show. Make it happen.” 

I sighed. “That’s not how this works, Donut, and you know it. And 
besides, I am not your agent.” 

“No, no you’re not. Miss Beatrice is my agent, and once we reunite with 
her, she’ll make sure I get on that show. But she’s halfway around the 
world. I figure we’ll have to wait until the fifth or sixth floor before the 


dungeon shrinks enough for us to find her. I really hope we don’t have to 
wait much longer than that.” 

I exchanged a look with Mordecai. 

“Sure,” I said finally. “Now let’s get back out there.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 13 ] 


THE FIRST THING WE DID WAS ANGLE OUR WAY TOWARD THAT CORPSE. 

I asked Mordecai if we’d be able to loot everything the dead woman 
had, and he said yes, crawlers drop everything but the unopened loot boxes. 
Non-crawlers would also be able to loot her body, but they wouldn’t have 
access to her inventory, so the woman likely had some items on her. 

“Maybe she’ll have some pants for you.” 

“Unless she’s over six feet tall then probably not,” I said. Items from the 
surface didn’t magically re-size themselves. Still, I held out hope she’d 
have something. 

“By the way,” I added a few minutes later, “those magic missiles of 
yours run out pretty quickly. You really need to start training with your 
claws.” 

Donut didn’t say anything for several moments. “I... I’ve never done 
anything like that before. I’m scared of getting hurt. What if it hits me 
back? I don’t want to get hit back.” 

“How is it you can be so reckless and timid at the same time?” 

“T can’t control my instincts! I’m just a few generations shy of being a 
ferocious tiger stalking through the jungles.” 

“T’ve seen your pedigree,” I said. “You’re a few generations shy of 
nothing. Also, your grandfather was also your uncle.” 

Both of us turned the corner, and there she was. 

She was sitting, leaning up against a wall just off the main corridor. She 
was on the very edge of the Hoarder’s neighborhood. 

The woman was naked. She had no clothes, no gear at all. The manner 
of her death wasn’t obvious. 


She appeared to be about thirty years old. Slight. Asian. Her hair was 
pulled back into a ponytail. A full sleeve tattoo of koi and a crane decorated 
her left arm. The bright colors of the tattoo suggested it was recent ink. She 
had several other, older tattoos. 

“I think goblins came along and took all her stuff,” I said. I examined 
her, popping up the info box. 

Lootable Corpse. Crawler Rebecca W. Level 3. Killed by Crawler 
Frank Q. 

Apple Core. 

I felt as if I was slapped. Killed by Crawler Frank Q. 

That’s when I saw it. A gunshot wound, right in her chest between her 
breasts, right in the middle of a moth tattoo. It’d killed her instantly, not 
leaking hardly any blood. 

“Oh goodness. This Frank Q gentleman doesn’t seem like a decent 
person at all,” Donut said. 

I instinctively looked up at my map, looking for blue dots. There were 
none. Would the dots be hidden if the person was trying to hide? If I wasn’t 
in the area of the neighborhood map, the red dots wouldn’t appear unless I 
was right on top of them. But NPCs always appeared if they were within a 
couple hundred meters, even if they were around the corner. Could other 
crawlers hide from me? 

Christ, another thing to worry about. A crazy asshole with a gun. 

I was suddenly, inexplicably reminded of that day. The last day I ever 
saw my father. 

You’re a bully. You’re a bully and nobody likes you. It’s why mom left. 

I was expecting him to get angry, to hit me. But he never hit me, not 
once. The man just laughed and laughed, and that was enough. I don’t need 
you to like me. But you will respect me. 

The memory came quickly, out of nowhere. I didn’t know why. Nobody 
had died that day. Nobody had been hurt at all, not physically. 

“Maybe Frank Q isn’t a human,” Donut was saying. “Maybe he’s one of 
those cocker spaniels.” She sniffed at the corpse. “Yes, this is definitely the 
work of a cocker spaniel.” 

I sighed. “She’s been shot,” I said. “Look. That’s from a gun.” 

“Maybe the dog had a gun. If I had a gun in my inventory, I could shoot 
it.” 

“No, you couldn’t. It wasn’t a dog.” 


One of our neighbors in the apartment had a dog named Angel. A cocker 
spaniel. I couldn’t remember the woman’s name, but her dog was always 
barking her head off. Bea was friendly with the owner, and they were 
always chatting in the hallway. Every once in a while Angel would burst 
into our apartment, barking, running in circles. She’d pee on the floor and 
shriek-bark at Donut, who would sit atop her cat tree and hiss and spit and 
poof all her hair out. 

“We need to be careful,” I said. “Keep on the lookout for other players. 
If we come across any, don’t tell them what gear we have. They can’t 
examine it if they’re not in our party.” 

“We are in a dungeon filled with killer cockroaches and drug-dealing 
llamas. Some imbecile with a gun doesn’t scare me,” Donut announced. 
“And they shouldn’t scare you, either. We should hunt this vile killer down 
and bring him to justice.” 

“Weren’t we just talking about this? And this guy doesn’t scare me,” I 
said. I looked down at the dead woman. I wondered who she was, why 
someone like her was outside at 2:30 in the morning on such a night. I’m 
never going to know her story. Nobody is ever going to know it. I wondered 
how scared she’d been. Only to be killed by a fellow human. He’d looted 
her corpse, taking everything, leaving only an apple core. It made me 
irrationally angry. “In fact, I think you’re right. I want to find him if we 
can.” 

I thought for a moment. “Okay,” I said. “Let’s stick to the neighborhood 
for right now since we have the map. We’ll hunt down the remaining red 
dots. We need all the easy experience we can get. Then we’ll go back to the 
safe room and watch the premiere.” Mordecai had said the show would air 
on the screens in the safe room. “After that, the stairs will open up. We’ll go 
hunting for both the stairs and this guy.” 

“You’re not scared of that guy? Really?” Donut asked, looking between 
me and the corpse. 

“No,” I said. “Not at all.” 

“Well then, you’re crazy. I don’t like you being crazy. I’m scared of 
him. We need to stay away from him. What if he’s like one of those murder 
hobos you hear so much about?” 

“Just two seconds ago you said, and I quote, ‘Some imbecile with a gun 
doesn’t scare me!’” 


“Yeah, that’s when I thought you were being a pussy. I didn’t realize 
you were getting all Charles Bronson Death Wish on me!” 

“How do you even know what that is?” 

“You two always leave the TV on when you go to work. I absorbed all 
that stuff. Miss Beatrice always leaves it on Lifetime and HGTV, and you 
leave it on that channel that plays the A-Team and Charles Bronson movies 
all day.” 

“We’ll be careful,” I said. “Don’t worry.” 

Nearby, a group of three red dots was steadily moving through a 
hallway. The map didn’t say what they were, but based on our earlier 
encounters, I guessed them to be more of the rats. I suspected we wouldn’t 
see any more Scatterers in this neighborhood. 

“Come on, Donut. Let’s hunt.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 14 ] 


THE PREMIERE OF DUNGEON CRAWLER WORLD: EARTH WAS EASILY THE MOST 
bizarre thing I’d ever witnessed in my life. 

Apparently, alien television shows were presented in a completely 
different way than a standard, 2D television screen. Viewers were virtually 
placed within actual scenes, as they happened. This virtual rendition and 
recap of the moments presented on the show was fully experienced by the 
viewers, including the smells and physical sensations just short of feeling 
the actual pain. 

However, Tally explained, many viewers didn’t like the VR version of 
the action, so they watched using a method where they had a bird’s eye 
view, and they could zoom in and out and switch angles at a whim. 

We didn’t have any of that. The show streamed on the center of the 
three televisions over the fast food counter. Tally came out from around the 
back to sit with us at the booth to watch. 

4,006,002. That’s how many people were left when the show premiered. 
The number continued to steadily tick down while the show aired. It made 
me sick to look at it, so I tried to tune it out. 

“This is not good way to watch show,” Tally announced as the title 
appeared on the screen. The screen jerked around, like I was watching 
someone play a game on Twitch. The view kept randomly zooming in and 
out, sometimes focusing on nothing in particular. Sometimes lights flashed 
for no reason. 

It started with a commentator in the top right of the screen. I stared at 
the orange-hued, four-eyed lizard-like creature as he-she-it, I couldn’t tell, 
breathlessly gave a recap of last season. The sound kept cutting in and out, 


and I couldn’t tell why. The creature sounded like it had gravel in their 
mouth when they spoke anyway, and even though it was speaking in 
Syndicate standard, I could barely make out what they were saying. It 
started with a shot of a planet that looked remarkably like Earth, but with 
the continents all jumbled up. It zoomed in on the planet, showing buildings 
that appeared to almost be made of plastic, all on stilts with round, pod-like 
mechanisms zipping about underneath. The collapse came, but instead of 
the buildings all sinking into the ground, they swept away, rolling to the 
side like they’d been sucked up by an invisible vacuum. 

Next came a view of a building that looked similar to the Roman 
Coliseum, only bigger. The arena had multiple floors, mazes, and a level 
filled entirely with water. On the exterior of the building, which appeared to 
be the size of an entire city, was written The Squim Conglomerate 
Presents, Battle for the Planet Aryl. 

Next showed thousands of furry, gorilla-like creatures screaming and 
rushing into battle against another group of similar creatures. Later, it 
showed a single, heavily armored gorilla stick a spear into the throat of a 
smaller, gray-colored gorilla riding a massive pig thing. The word 
WINNER appeared on the screen. 

The winning gorilla fell to his knees and appeared to start sobbing 
before the screen cut away. A round metal tube that looked like a barrel 
appeared on the screen for 15 seconds straight. There was no sound. Tally 
said it was a commercial. 

“I do not like last season’s version of game,” Tally said, shaking his 
furry head. “They break the people into groups, tell them their loved ones 
will be safe if they kill others. Then everybody kill one another.” 

“Are they?” I asked. 

“Are they what?” Tally asked. 

“Are their loved ones safe if they win?” 

“Aye, they are safe, but they are not safe. Is better dead. Squim saps the 
planet dry. It leaves planet, moves on. No more atmosphere. People live 
after the big fight, but they don’t live. Not really. Borant at least gives 
people a chance. Tally’s people had chance.” 

“So, you were a crawler, then?” 

“No,” Tally said. “Not all worlds are mined or picked for the show. 
Sometimes they come and offer to take people in exchange for not mining 
world. They came, and I went. This was very long ago.” 


“Shush,” Donut said. “They’re introducing us now.” 

Next came a view of Earth. Music swelled, sounding almost like 
mariachi with an EDM beat. Three lines of text scrolled across the bottom 
of the screen, all in different languages I couldn’t read. Another two lines, 
one going up, one going down scrolled on the right side, shrinking the 
viewing area. A generic, naked human male and female appeared on the 
screen, and the next 10 minutes was a discussion of human anatomy with an 
inordinate amount of time spent discussing male testicles and female 
ovaries. I still couldn’t understand most of what the commentator was 
saying. Next came a long line of shots of earth, focusing mostly on urban 
areas. It quickly became clear that the show was cherry-picking the shittier 
parts of the planet, showing shanty towns and garbage dumps. Bubbling pits 
of mud, and abandoned buildings. They were throwing in scenes from 
disaster films. I recognized a shot from the latest Godzilla movie. They 
were going out of their way to make earth look like a nightmare. 

Then came the people. They were showing people shooting up drugs, 
killing each other, a group of kids beating the crap out of another kid, a 
scene from the movie Basket Case, a dead horse for some reason, a scene 
from that serial killer movie that won Best Picture last year, an elderly 
woman crying, the kid from the “Charlie bit My Finger” Youtube video. 

“Wow,” Donut said, shaking her head sadly. “I didn’t realize Earth 
sucked so badly. Disgusting.” 

“That’s not how it really is,” I said. I paused. Not is. Was. The world is 
gone. “They’re making it look like they’re the good guys, saving us from 
ourselves.” 

Next came a sky-view version of the collapse, over a dense city I didn’t 
recognize. Next was what appeared to be a CGI rendition of the dungeon 
forming below the Earth’s crust. It only showed the first three levels, which 
was like an upside down, tiered pyramid. 

The next forty minutes was nothing but scenes of people getting killed 
over and over. 

The vast majority of people who entered the dungeon appeared to be 
from India and Africa and South America. Some of them were in massive 
groups of 1,000 plus people. I watched them trample each other as they ran 
from mobs I’d never seen, from spine-covered wolves to shapeless blobs of 
fire to floating, stingray-like creatures which shot magic missiles from eye 
stalks, like the alien ships from War of the Worlds. 


“Why did so many enter the dungeon?” I asked. I had entered because I 
didn’t have a choice. Was it the same for the others? 

Eventually, they started showing people surviving their encounters. A 
man with a broadsword cut through a group of floating eyeball things. A 
group of 10 people, armed with shotguns and bows and arrows, took down 
a nightmare pile of mouths and eyeballs and flesh. A Borough Boss, the 
screen said, the first one defeated. It quickly showed all 10 of their 
mugshots and listed the contents of their Silver Boss Boxes and their 
Platinum Weapons Boxes they’d received for the achievement. They’d all 
received magic tomes and enchanted ranged weapons. 

Next, they showed a girl about 13 years old with a pair of rottweilers. I 
guessed she might be from South America somewhere. She wore an 
oversized soccer jersey that was yellow with a thick blue stripe running 
across it. The girl wore an angry, determined expression on her face 

The dogs ripped a cow-sized spider to shreds. Later, the same girl held a 
mace in her hand and had a full set of glowing, silver armor. She’d kept the 
soccer jersey, wearing it over the armor like a tabard. One of the dogs wore 
what appeared to be a chainmail sweater. The other had gained the ability to 
shoot lightning when it barked. 

We were shown her mugshot and both of the dogs. Her name was Lucia 
Mar. The dogs were Cici and Gustavo 3. 

I still wasn’t sure about the naming conventions. I guessed since I was 
the first Carl in the dungeon, I didn’t have my last initial after my official 
name. And since this Gustavo was a dog without a last name, he had the 
three because he was the third Gustavo to enter the dungeon without a 
surname. 

After that, it showed a quick rundown of several of the mobs, the 
images flashing by so quickly I could barely see any of them. I recognized 
goblins, scatterers, rats, and dozens of the monsters shown in the earlier 
scenes. 

And that was it. The announcer said something about staying tuned for a 
rundown of this season’s rules and surprises and then something else about 
placing bets, but the screen snapped off and returned to the leaderboard 
image. 

We just stared at the board for several moments. 

“That’s it?” Donut demanded, breaking the silence. She looked at me, 
incredulous. “After that epic battle with Hoarder, we received no screen 


1? 


time. This is unacceptable 

Before she could rant further, an announcement came. It was the same 
woman who spoke when the gates first closed. 

Good job so far everyone. We had 15 borough bosses taken out and 
over 1,500 neighborhood bosses killed. A pair of crawlers even came 
across a city boss, but that ended as you might expect. Losses are right 
on the projected track. 

You’ll be getting these announcements after each episode. A couple 
quick patch notes. The Fire Fingers spell should be safe to cast now. 
We’ve fixed the hallway bathroom bug. So, if you open the door, and 
someone else enters, they will no longer explode. Sorry about that. 
Reminder, however, hallway bathrooms are personal spaces, and they 
can’t be shared. We also fixed the unlimited toilet paper bug. Now 
you’re only getting one roll per floor, so if you waste it, you’re on your 
own. We have a long list of fixes with the new inventory system that 
we’re working on. For right now, the two big ones we’ve already 
patched are that you can no longer transport mobs to your inventory in 
order to kill them. Also, any momentum an item might have while it 
entered inventory will no longer be preserved. It’s now safe to extract 
items you put into inventory while moving at a high rate of speed. 
Remember, this inventory system is a privilege, and it’s not meant to be 
used as a weapon. While we love and admire your creativity, any 
unintentional exploits will be patched, so if you find something that has 
an unintended feature, don’t get too comfortable using it. 

We are now populating the staircases down to level 2. Remember, 
everyone. Only go down the stairs early if you absolutely have to. Once 
you descend to the next floor, you can’t go back up. Also, we’re trying 
something new this season. If you prematurely descend, you are held in 
stasis until the collapse. So those of you working on your social 
numbers, keep that in mind. Viewers tend to lose interest quickly, and 
you’ll shed favorites if you’re not accessible for a couple days before 
the floor above collapses. We recommend descending to the next level 
no earlier than six hours before the scheduled collapse. If you descend 
during that window, there will be no stasis involved, and you’! actually 
get a head start over those who came before you. Good luck. Let’s have 
a great 30 hours until the next episode tunnels! 

Now get out there and kill, kill, kill! 


“Obviously we need to find one of these city bosses,” Donut said. 
“That’ll guarantee a feature the next episode. That’s what we need to focus 
on.” 

I remembered the borough boss from the show. It had taken a group of 
ten well-armed crawlers to take it down. 

“No,” I said. “We need to find an exit.” 

I pulled up my map, hoping to see a stairwell appear somewhere in the 
neighborhood. There was nothing. I remembered reading once that the earth 
was just under 200 million square miles. There would be 75,000 entrances 
down to the second floor. If these staircases were distributed randomly, we 
were fucked. Even if the first floor was just underneath the landmasses, and 
not the entire planet, we were still screwed. I was no math wizard, but I 
knew that meant the stairs would be hard to find. 

Mordecai had said the staircase, like a safe room, would appear on the 
mini map, even if we hadn’t explored that area yet. But even zoomed out, 
the map only encompassed a little more than a square mile. And when it 
was in normal mode, down in the comer of my vision, the map was a fourth 
of that. I couldn’t just walk around with it zoomed out because I wouldn’t 
be able to see anything. 

We had three and a half days to find the staircase. We needed to cover a 
lot of ground. 


OceanofPDF.com 


Time to Level Collapse: Three Days and Two Hours 


“WE’VE BEEN HERE BEFORE,” DONUT SAID AS WE TURNED DOWN THE MAIN 
corridor. “This is where we came into the dungeon.” 

After having explored much of the area, I was starting to see a 
distinctive pattern to the hallways. My apartment had been a little more than 
a half mile from the coast of the Puget Sound. The entrance I’d gone 
through appeared to be the very western edge of the map. The whole area 
was a giant grid of equal-sized squares, with the large, wide passages acting 
as the borders. While the interior halls and tunnels were twisty and maze- 
like, each section was still a perfect, giant square. And within each square, 
there appeared to be four neighborhoods. 

The Hoarder neighborhood was in the southeast corner of one of those 
squares. Directly west of that was the goblin neighborhood, right where 
we'd entered the dungeon. Across the hall was the domain of the llamas. 
Mordecai had said these first few floors weren’t really covering the entire 
planet, and I could see now that he was correct, at least here. The dungeon 
was really just a condensed version of the city directly above, but more 
organized. I wondered what it was like in the more rural areas, if there were 
any entrances at all. 

It appeared mobs didn’t respawn in a particular neighborhood once you 
killed the boss, though mobs from adjacent neighborhoods had started to 


creep their way in. Also, the level two rats were just everywhere, though I 
never saw one in the main hall. They were nothing but a nuisance now. 
They’d see us, charge, and I’d either kick them or stomp them, killing them 
with a single blow. 

Near the northern edge of the Hoarder’s neighborhood, we started to run 
across a new type of mob: slimes. 

After our first encounter with those things, we had to turn back. I 
couldn’t fight them, not without any sort of protection for my hands. The 
first one we came across was a simple level two green slime. Donut and I 
had both already hit level seven by this point, and I figured it’d be simple as 
killing the bugs. 

Kicking the green slime did nothing but burn my feet. I made the 
mistake of trying to punch the pig-sized blob, and it almost ate my arm off. 
As it was, I sunk elbow deep into it, and my right fingerless glove dissolved 
right off my hand. The right arm of my leather jacket melted away. 

It ended up killing itself thanks to my Damage Reflect ability. My arm 
was red and bubbling and screaming with pain by the time I pulled it out of 
the green, gelatin mass. 

I received an It burns, dunnit? achievement for that one. 

Thankfully, the steel chain wrapped around my knuckles remained 
intact. In fact, the links appeared to gleam after the fight, as if they’d been 
cleaned. 

I waited to heal, and we turned around, giving that neighborhood a wide 
berth. 

It was then, as I gazed upon the next neighborhood over, that I got an 
idea on how to cover more ground as quickly as possible. 

I pointed to the neon sign that remained blinking off the main corridor. 
“Da Tutorial Guild.” It looked as it had when we first arrived. “We are 
headed in there.” 

Donut: YES O.K. THERE WILL BE MONSTERS IN THERE. 

“Stop,” I said. “Please stop.” 

Pd made the mistake of showing Donut the chat feature of the party 
menu. One could click on the party’s name, and a chat option appeared at 
the end of the list. For me, a virtual keyboard materialized floating before 
me, but after spending some time with it, I figured out how to just think the 
words while focusing on the chat window. Apparently Donut, as a 
quadruped, had a completely different interface. 


When the messages came, they popped up with a haptic buzz in my 
brain, and it startled me every time. Donut spent a good ten minutes sending 
me message after nonsensical message until I finally told her to stop. She 
had, until now. 

“Using the chat is quite enjoyable to me,” Donut said. “Now I 
understand why Miss Beatrice was always on her phone. I wish it was 
connected to the internet. I think I'd have a lot of fun on the internet.” 

“It’s good to have,” I said. “But you don’t need to do it when I’m right 
here. It hurts my head. Also, don’t type in all caps. It makes it sound like 
you’re shouting.” 

“Okay, fine. Be a grump,” she said as we approached the alleyway. 

Thanks to Donut’s Torch spell, we didn’t need to carry a light when we 
entered the pitch-black corridor. 

I was expecting another goblin machine to be waiting for us, but the 
alley was abandoned. The place smelled of machines, oil, and pineapple. 

“Pm okay with killing goblins,” Donut said as we walked. “But I don’t 
think there’ll be stairs this close to the edge of the map. Remember what it 
looked like on the show? Each floor was smaller. I think we need to head 
east before we start seeing stairs.” 

“We’re not going to kill the goblins,” I said, indicating the tattoo on my 
forearm, which still appeared on the exterior of my intact left jacket arm. 
“Not if we don’t have to.” We eased our way down the alley, keeping an eye 
out for red dots. 

It didn’t take long. We turned a corner, and three level two goblins 
approached, all brandishing pineapple sticks. 

“What is with the goblins and their fruit?” Donut asked as they 
approached, screeching. 

“T don’t know,” I said. “It’s weird.” 

Before they got too close, I lifted my arm, showing the tattoo. “I have 
free passage through this area!” 

The goblins all stopped at that. The moment I showed them the mark, 
their dots turned from red to white. They lowered their weapons and looked 
at one another, as if confused about what to do next. They started gibbering 
in their language. Finally, one turned toward me. 

“Where you get that mark, human?” 

I had a carefully-prepared answer. Hopefully they would... 


“He blew up one of your filthy tractors and smeared three of your 
friends all over the cobblestones,” Donut declared. She pointed daintily 
south. “They’re in that next neighborhood over if you want to scoop ‘em 
up.” 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I whispered. The goblins stared at us with a slack- 
jawed gaze of incredulity. “Let me do the talking. Pm the one with the 
brand.” 

“And I’m the one with the 37 in charisma,” said Donut. “They’re not 
going to care. Watch this.” She started walking toward one of three goblins. 
“You, sweetheart,” she said. “What’s your name?” 

“Uh, I don’t...” the goblin began. “I don’t think I have a name.” 

“Most unfortunate,” Donut said. “Hmm. I’m going to call you B.A.” 
She looked at the other two goblins. “And you guys are Face and 
Murdock.” She looked back at me. “Remind me why we’re here again?” 

“T want to talk to some of the goblin engineers,” I said. 

“B.A., be a love and show us to some of your engineers. I do believe 
they’re the gentlemen who wear culinary items upon their heads.” 

“Uh, okay. Yes, ma’am,” B.A. the goblin said. 

“Wait,” Donut said. 

“Yeah?” B.A. said. 

Donut indicated the tiara on her head. “It’s not ma’am. It’s Princess 
Donut. You got that, B.A.?” 

“Um, okay. Okay, Princess Donut.” He turned and started marching 
further north into the dungeon. 

“What the actual fuck?” I hissed at the cat. “How... Did you know that 
was going to happen?” 

“It’s simple,” Donut said as we walked. “Mordecai told me that the 
higher my charisma is, the easier it will be to get them to do what I want. As 
long as they can speak and their dots aren’t red and they aren’t a boss or a 
really high level, I can control them just like I control you. Mordecai says 
for the first four or five floors, I can talk anybody into anything. How do 
you think I’ve been getting Tally to give me five plates of salmon this 
whole time?” 

As we walked, we passed several groups of level two goblins. We also 
saw a few types I hadn’t seen before: 

Goblin Bomb Bard. Level 5. 


These bastards are more unhinged and sadistic than those guys who 
couldn’t pass the psych exam to join the military. Bomb Bards are 
experts with explosives, and they strike with a variety of ranged attacks 
that’ll blow your socks off. If the one you’re looking at right now has 
more than half of his fingers, then he’s probably very, very dangerous. 

One of the bomb bards glared at us as we passed. The goblin, indeed, 
had all of his fingers. He tossed a small, glass ball up in the air, catching it 
absently as we marched past. Each of the level twos on either side of him 
cringed each time the glass ball went up in the air. 

We turned another comer, and we entered a large workshop. At the end 
of this room was a wooden door, and based on the minimap, I immediately 
determined beyond that door was the lair of yet another neighborhood boss. 
It appeared this next room over was almost identical in shape to that of the 
Hoarder. 

I looked about the expansive workshop. We were surrounded by about 
25 of the engineers and a smattering of others, including two level seven 
“shamankas” who stood guarding the far wall. The engineers all wore 
something odd on their heads, but it wasn’t always pots and pans. One wore 
what appeared to be a hockey helmet. Another sported one of those padded 
helmets worn by boxers. 

A massive steam engine dominated the western wall, and the engineers 
crawled about it like ants. Wheels and cogs whirled and chugged away. On 
the opposite side of the room stood a line of six parked goblin murder 
dozers. These also crawled with goblin engineers. Multiple tables covered 
with tools and giant, greasy parts lay scattered about the room. A vast pile 
of coal stood in the far corner near the boss room. 

One of the level sevens glanced in our direction and approached. 

She was a female goblin, standing about five and a quarter feet tall, 
making her tower over the others. She had well-defined muscles and wore a 
jet-black robe. She carried a wooden staff that, oddly, also held a pineapple 
at the top, but this one was actually made of wood, a part of the carving. 

The goblin’s face was filled with piercings. There had to be fifty of 
them. She looked like one of those body modification people who would 
appear on Ripley’s Believe It or Not! It was hard to look at until you got 
used to it. The woman sneered, revealing sharpened teeth and a forked, 
pierced tongue. 

Goblin Shamanka. Level 7. 


In case you’re wondering, Shamanka is just a fancy way of saying 
female shaman. Goblin Shamans are the leader class of all goblin clans, 
second only to the War Chieftain or, more rarely, the Goblin Warlord. 
They are without humor and are said, as part of their training, to have 
to pick two of the following three actions in order to graduate 
Shamanka University: they have to fuck, cook, and/or eat their own 
parents. Most don’t pick cook. And if that wasn’t messed up enough, 
they specialize in Anguish Magic, a dark magic school designed to focus 
and enhance damage from other attacks. 

“You may have a pass, but you are not welcome here, human,” the 
goblin said. “Not in this place.” 

I took a deep breath. “I want to buy a vehicle from you guys. Or have 
you make me one really quick. Preferably something that I can negotiate 
down stairs, but Pll take what I can get. We have a lot of ground to cover, 
and I figured you guys could help.” 

The goblin looked at me as if I’d just asked her to eat a Twinkie out of 
my ass. 

“You stupid, ugly, excuse for a monkey. Do you really think you can 
just...” 

“Oh, honey, can we discuss what’s going on here?” Donut asked, 
interrupting the goblin. She waved a paw, indicating the jewelry in the 
goblin’s face. “Is it like some sort of performance art? Do you wear all that 
metal because they made you eat your parents?” 

The shaman looked at Donut, a mask of utter outrage on her face that 
started to melt the moment she met the cat’s eyes. It was the weirdest thing. 
I realized the cat was casting a spell of sorts on the goblin, some sort of 
automatic charm effect. 

“What?” the goblin asked, her voice totally changed. She, to everyone’s 
complete surprise, sat cross-legged on the ground and leaned forward. She 
discarded her pineapple staff. “What did you say?” 

“T mean, I guess I can see what you were going for. You have exquisite 
cheekbones,” Donut said. “But your face looks like an overenthusiastic 
brillo pad. That other lady shaman down there, she doesn’t have nearly as 
many things in her face. Though, my word, she does have that unfortunate 
necklace made of bones, doesn’t she? But we’ll get to her later. So, tell me. 
Is it a daddy thing?” 


The goblin didn’t say anything for several moments, but then she put 
her face into her hands, and she burst into tears. “Yes,” the goblin cried. 
“Tt’s true.” Donut walked forward and sat in her lap. 

The other shamanka, alarmed at this new development, came running 
forward. But a moment later, the two magic users were on the ground, 
sobbing, clutching onto each other. The one with the bone necklace had a 
line of snot running down her face as she ugly cried about having to eat her 
father raw. 

Donut named the one with the facial piercings Rory and the other 
Lorelai. 

“So, Rory,” Donut asked after a few minutes of the goblins sniveling, 
“how about that vehicle my friend asked for? Is there something you can do 
for us?” 

Rory wiped her face. “We cannot part with a murder dozer. They are 
much too valuable, and the chieftain would literally kill us. But I will have 
them make a human-sized chopper. One with a sidecar.” She indicated a 
line of two-wheeled contraptions leaning up against the wall near the 
bulldozers. They appeared to be steam-powered bicycles. “But we can’t do 
it for free. You gotta trade something.” 

“T have all sorts of stuff,” I said. I pulled up my inventory. I selected the 
satchel of gunpowder, and it appeared in my hands. It was a heavy leather 
sack. I wanted to keep the stuff, but I wanted the transport more. 

Rory thumbed over her shoulder, indicating a line of barrels right next 
to the giant machine. “We got funpowder.” I hadn’t noticed the barrels 
before. They all had XXX marked on them. Sparks were constantly 
showering off the giant steam engine. If one of those sparks landed on a 
barrel... “To offer goblins funpowder is like offering water to a piranha,” 
she added. 

This went on for a bit. I offered torches. Healing potions. Antidote 
potions. Both the pet biscuits and the crawler biscuits. All of it rejected. 

My eyes caught something else on my list. 

“How about this?” I asked, offering up the two baggies of meth. 

Rory snatched them away. “Is this all you have? Two hits?” 

Lorelai scrabbled at Rory’s hand, coming away with one of the bags. 
The goblin opened the baggie, stuck a pinky in, and had a quick taste. Her 
eyes grew wide. “This is dungeon made,” Lorelai said. “He didn’t bring it 


with him from the outside.” She looked at me. “Where did you get it? Did 
they have more?” 

“PII tell you where to get more in exchange for that machine—one that 
won’t blow up on us—plus coal or whatever you need to run it, and some of 
those grenade things your Bomb Bards carry.” 

“I don’t know,” Lorelai began, looking uncertainly at the other shaman. 

“Do it,” Donut said. 

“Deal,” Rory said. 

Lorelai got up and started screaming orders at the engineers, who 
looked at her as if she had gone insane. The shamanka sent a blue bolt into 
the backside of one of the engineers, and they scrambled to work. 

“Do you... do you want to come with us?” Donut asked Rory, her voice 
surprisingly gentle. 

Donut still sat in the Rory’s lap, and she purred as the green monster 
stroked her hair. 

The pierced goblin sighed. “I cannot. I can’t leave the chieftain. He’s 
terrible, soft even, but he’s still leader of my clan. My family. And even if I 
could go with you, I wouldn’t be able to leave this floor. If we climb down 
the stairs, we die. You get halfway down, and your body just dissolves. I’ve 
seen it myself.” 

“So you know how this works? You know what’s happening here?” I 
asked. 

The goblin nodded. Her face jingled when she moved. “I know enough. 
I know we are on the first floor. There are smart mobs, like us, and there are 
not-so-smart mobs. The deeper you get into the dungeon, the more are 
smart. In this borough, we are king. Us and the gnolls and the rat-kin and a 
few others. Most of the monsters aren’t so smart.” 

“But do you know what happens in a couple days?” I asked. 

“The floor collapses,” she said. “Yes. But it is only you who dies when 
this happens. For us we go to sleep until the next dungeon opens. We will 
open our eyes, and it will be the same as it has been. Just another day. But 
one of these days, one of these days we will wake up, and we will be 
deeper. That’s what they tell us. Kill the crawlers, get better at killing, and 
you get to go deeper. And one day, eventually, we will be so deep that 
crawlers will never come, and we will finally have peace. We will have 
peace and a place to live and breed and have our little ones run free and not 
worry about killing for survival.” 


OceanofPDE.com 


GOBLIN COPPER CHOPPER WITH ATTACHED SIDECAR. HUMAN-SIZED. 
Contraption. 

Take a junkyard bicycle, add an unreliable steam engine, remove all 
the bolts holding it together, replace them with chewing gum, and you 
get the idea. The preferred assault transport of Goblin Bomb Bards, 
what this contraption lacks in reliability and safety it makes up for in 
absolutely nothing. 

I took a step back and admired the “vehicle.” Like the description said, 
it looked a lot like a crackhead’s bicycle. The framework was made of 
welded-together copper bits of varying patinas. Thankfully they’d made this 
one a little bigger to fit me, but even then, it was still probably a bit too 
small to be comfortable. 

The two wheels were solid and black, made of some unknown material. 
The seat appeared to be an alligator skull with white fur lining the top, 
giving it the impression that the skull was wearing an Andy Warhol wig. 
The engine sat in the middle of the chassis, thumping. A hopper extended 
from the engine, opening up near the handlebars. I would have to 
periodically toss a lump of coal in there. 

“What about the water?” I asked. “And how do I turn it off?” 

“Its a permacube,” the engineer said. “Won’t run out until you die of 
old age. You don’t turn it off. Just let it run out of coal. Toss in a lump, and 
it’ll start up on its own after a minute. We don’t use the lesser demons to 
run our steam engines like some do. This is just as good, and this baby will 
outlast you.” He slapped the side of the bike, and the handlebars fell off, 


clattering to the ground. He cursed and bent to pick them back up. He 
Started reattaching them to the frame with a wrench. 

The detachable sidecar was nothing more than a bar, a single wheel 
affixed to a colossal spring, and another, smaller, fur-lined skull that was 
supposed to be the seat. This skull looked like it was from some flat-headed 
orc creature. A pair of bones provided a backrest. Donut jumped up a few 
times, circled, sat down, then jumped off. She started demanding some 
changes of the engineers. They were currently painting the backrest purple 
after adding an extra layer of fur. 

The bike was heavy, heavier than it looked. But thankfully, I could lift it 
off the ground for just long enough to be able to pop it into my inventory. 

“Tt’s not going to blow up on me, is it? That dozer thing exploded after 
it hit the wall.” 

“That dozer wouldn’t have blown up if you had twisted the relief 
valve,” the engineer said. He pointed to a pair of identical spigots on the 
side of the bike. “If it gets too hot, twist that one right there, and it won’t 
blow. If the pressure is too high, twist the other one. Don’t mix it up, or you 
make it worse.” 

“How will I know if it’s too hot? Or if the pressure is too high? There 
are no gauges!” 

He smiled, revealing a row of sharp teeth. 

“Don’t you worry about that, human. You will know. Just listen to the 
chopper. It will tell you.” 

The engineer had pointed at that stack of coal that reached the ceiling, 
telling me to grab all I could carry. I sneaked around the back of the heap 
and took a metric fuck-ton of the stuff. I had three piles of 999 coal lumps 
before the heap started to look noticeably lower. 

It was time to jet. Both Rory and Lorelai had disappeared while the 
goblin engineers worked. They reappeared now. Both of them were blitzed. 
Rory’s eyes were noticeably slitted, and Lorelai danced seductively toward 
me as we prepared to leave. 

“Wanna have some fun before you go?” Lorelai asked, grasping the 
front of my tattered jacket. Her breath smelled of rotten fish. She’d 
removed her bone necklace. 

“Uh,” I said. 

“Oh, sweetie,” said Donut, “as amusing as I would find it to watch Carl 
here disappoint yet another woman, we’re on a schedule. Banging monster 


girls is not the narrative we’re going for with this story. Maybe next time.” 

“Sure, but you look me up later, okay?” the goblin said. She reached up 
and booped me on the nose. “It’d be nice to fuck someone and not have to 
eat them afterward.” She sighed and turned toward one of the Bomb Bards. 

“You,” she said. “Meet me in my chambers after lights out. And take a 
bath first.” 

Rory handed me a bag. I examined it, and it was filled to the brim with 
dynamite and several types of small bombs and grenades. Remembering 
how dangerous this stuff was, I quickly added it to my inventory. I’d 
examine the items from there. 

Rory turned to Donut. “Okay, we had a deal. Where’d you find the 
stuff?” 

“The drugs?” Donut asked. “It’s just one neighborhood over, on the 
other side of the road. We got it from one of those llamas.” 

“I knew it!” she said. She turned toward another Bomb Bard. “Gear up. 
They’ve been holding out on us. We’re rolling on them in five.” 

I stood, bewildered as all around me, the goblins—from the level two 
standard goblins to the engineers to the bomb bards—burst into a 
screeching frenzy of activity. The murder dozers growled like dinosaurs as 
goblins piled on. Four copper choppers similar to my own roared to life. 
The bomb bards all donned metal helmets with a German-style spike at the 
tip. The tips glistened, shooting sparks. The goblins could light their 
dynamite sticks and bombs just by raising them over their own heads. 

One by one, the choppers and dozer transports rumbled away, filled 
with screaming goblins. A minute later, and we were alone in the room. 

“Did that just happen?” I asked, spinning to see if we truly were alone. 
We were. “Did we really just start a meth war between the goblins and the 
llamas?” 

“Yes, we did,” Donut said. “Just like I planned. It went pretty well, 
don’t you think?” She indicated the door at the far side of the room. “So, 
you want to go in there and kill their chieftain? I could really use another 
boss box.” 

I examined the large room we were in. The goblins had abandoned a ton 
of stuff. Just like that. I didn’t see any weapons or armor. But there were 
piles of engineering supplies. Wires, cogs, dynamite, gunpowder—or as 
they called it, “funpowder.” Barrels of it. I eyed a simple cart used to 
transport the barrels from one area to the next. 


“We need to loot everything we can,” I said, looking around. 
“Everything.” 

“And then we kill the chieftain, right?” 

I looked at the door. The last time we’d fought a boss, I’d had to 
pummel a scared woman to death. I could still feel her face crunching under 
my fists. We had no idea what was behind that door, but the support 
creatures of this area were significantly stronger than the ones guarding the 
last boss room. It’d be dumb to go in there. Really, really dumb. 

Besides, it’d be the ultimate dick move after they’d helped us. 

“Yeah, and then we kill the chieftain,” I said. 


Donut hopped up and down, her tail swishing. “This is going to make 
exquisite television.” 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[ 17 ] 


My INVENTORY HAD ABOUT 10 NEW TABS BY THE TIME WE WERE DONE 
clearing out the goblin workshop. I took another five piles of coal. We 
looted tons of tools from shovels to wrenches to hammers. Most of them 
were much too small to use as weapons, but I would examine them all later 
to make sure. We had engineering supplies, coils and coils of wick, multiple 
types of explosives, about fifty gallons of various alchemical liquids, and a 
pile of those black discs they used for chopper tires. I even took all the 
tables I could lift. By the time we were done, all that was left were some of 
the bigger tables, the giant steam engine, a greatly-reduced pile of coal, and 
a set of barrels with XXX on them, all placed neatly on the cart and tied 
down with a length of rope. 

I’d managed to take almost a ton of the black powder, but it required me 
using the discarded leather sacks they had lying around. This stuff was 
distinctly the old-school, coarse black powder, not the more refined 
smokeless powder used in modern firearms. I wasn’t quite strong enough to 
lift the barrels until they were less than half full. But when they did get that 
empty, I didn’t put them in my inventory. Instead, I lifted the barrels and 
placed them on the cart. 

We placed the cart in front of the door to the boss room. On top of the 
powder, I placed shovelfuls of nuts and bolts and other metal odds and 
ends. Then I placed the tops back on the barrels before an errant spark from 
the still-humming steam engine blew us all to hell. 

Donut “directed” the action from the seat of her sidecar. I would put the 
chopper into my inventory before we proceeded. 


“Do you think Rory and Lorelai will be mad at me?” Donut asked as we 
prepared the trigger. Unlike last time, I wasn’t going to use plain goblin 
dynamite, which was inherently unstable. I found a blob of a C4-like 
explosive called “Hobgoblin Pus” that was detonated with an actual trigger. 
There was only a small amount of the material, but the description said it 
caused a big explosion. I had the sense that it was valuable, probably the 
real prize of this room. I was going to use it all. Next to the hobgoblin pus 
was a Set of magical triggers. There were only three of the mechanisms, and 
I had to waste one in order to test it, to see how they worked. 

The triggers were both genius and foolproof. You broke the tip off of the 
mechanism, which looked like a stick of underarm deodorant. You stuck the 
broken-off part into the explosive, and you pressed the button to set it off. 
Easy. The detonators were single use, but you could break off up to 10 
pieces for each stick, so you could simultaneously blow 10 different bombs. 
It had a five-second countdown after you pressed the button. The 
description said the trigger had a range of about ten kilometers. 

“Will they be mad? Probably,” I said. “But Rory doesn’t seem to like 
this boss guy too much, so who knows? I hope we never find out.” 

“Do you think this is enough?” Donut asked, looking over the four 
barrels. “I feel as if it’s not enough.” 

I shrugged. “Black powder isn’t really meant for blowing stuff up. But 
it’s good at throwing metal. If he’s in there and out in the open, we’ll turn 
this guy into a pincushion for sure. But I doubt the explosion itself is going 
to be bigger than when that murder dozer blew up. Either way, if this 
doesn’t kill him, more probably wouldn’t either.” 

The plan was a more refined version of what we had done with the 
Hoarder. From what I could see, the room that this war chieftain occupied 
was identical in size and shape to the one from the last boss battle. This was 
still the first floor, after all, so I doubted the guy was that powerful. We 
were going to open the door, push the cart in, close the door, run until we 
had several walls between us, and hit the trigger. If we killed the boss, we’d 
get a notification and a star by our names. If we didn’t, we’d keep running. 
We’d pull out the chopper and put some distance between us and the whole 
neighborhood and forget this ever happened. 

Pd put a hunk of the hobgoblin pus in each barrel, and I added the last 
of it to the top of the first barrel. I placed the detonator into the pus, sticking 
half out of it. I tried to make it look obvious, but not overly obvious. If the 


goblin chieftain had time to react, he’d hopefully spend his last moments 
digging the detonator out of this chunk of explosive, not realizing we had 
four more ready to go buried in each of the barrels. 

It was a chickenshit way to do it, but I didn’t care. Not when one got 
locked in the room with the boss otherwise. 

“You ready, Princess?” I asked. 

I stood directly behind the cart, poised to shove. I’d pulled it back a 
good ten feet, just enough to give me momentum. Donut would open the 
door using her menu, eyeball the room to make sure the path was clear, tell 
me to go, then slam the door after I heaved. Hopefully the floor would be 
flat enough for the cart to travel a good distance. 

“Ready,” she said. “I’m opening the door now.” 

From my vantage, I couldn’t see into the room, but I heard the heavy 
creak of the door yawning open. 

“Do it!” Donut cried. 

I kicked my legs, and I crashed into the cart like it was a football sled. 
Pd greased the wheels, and the heavy cart moved quickly and easily. I 
shoved with all my might and watched the cart rocket into the room as the 
large door slammed. 

Donut had already turned and was bolting for the exit on the opposite 
side of the room. 

I scrambled up and followed. We’d practiced this part. We turned three 
times, making sure we were out of any line of direct blast. I didn’t want to 
wait too long, but we had to put a few large rooms between us in case there 
was a shockwave that needed to be disbursed. We stopped at the 
prearranged spot, and I leaned against the wall, my heart thrashing. I pulled 
the detonator trigger from my inventory. 

“Did you see him? Was there a giant goblin in there?” I asked. 

Donut heaved for breath. “Yes. A huge. Ugly. Goblin. My word. I do not 
like running. He was sitting down, reading a book. Blow it, blow it good.” 

I jammed the button. 

“There sure were a lot of babies in there, too,” Donut said in that last 
moment before the blast. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 18 ] 


“GODDAMNIT, DONUT,” I SAID. 

We’d both been knocked over, but unhurt, by the shockwave. It’d been 
big, bigger than I’d expected. Dust cascaded from the ceiling. A terrible 
hissing noise followed the explosion. I suspected it was from the boiler of 
the giant engine. The whistling noise eased over the next several minutes. 
Occasional, smaller blasts went off. But eventually even those stopped. An 
entire wall of notifications appeared, most of them achievements. But we 
had, indeed, killed the neighborhood boss. There was no fanfare this time, 
but another bronze star appeared by both of our names. 

“Were there really babies in there? Like goblin babies?” I asked. 

“Oh yes, there were a bunch of them. I only saw them for but a moment, 
but they were quite cute. Some of them were wearing little oversized 
jackets, like Baby Yoda. Adorable. I think you hit one with the cart. There 
were old ones and pregnant ones, too. Did you see your level? We’re both 
level eight now. You’re welcome.” Donut looked up into the air. “We didn’t 
get to see our faces all big. I suppose they don’t do the boss battle graphic 
thing if you’re not locked in the room with them. That’s too bad. It’s quite 
entertaining.” 

“Goddamnit,” I said again. I was all about killing as many goblins and 
monsters as I could, but killing babies? That was pretty fucked up, and I 
wasn’t sure how I felt about it. Actually, I knew exactly how I felt about it. 
It made me feel like an asshole. I didn’t like feeling like an asshole. I stared 
at that blinking box of achievement notifications. I sighed. I didn’t even 
want to click on the box. 


“What?” Donut said, looking up with what appeared to be genuine 
curiosity. “It’s not like they didn’t have it coming. You didn’t ask to be here. 
They’re goblins! What kind of vile monster sticks babies in the boss room 
anyway?” 

I shook my head. “We need to get back over there, grab the 
neighborhood map, and get our asses out of Dodge before the others return. 
They’re probably on their way now. There’s no way they didn’t hear that. 
We’ ll go north, heading into the next neighborhood over.” 

The workshop had been completely obliterated. All that was left was 
blackened rubble. The lights on the walls were all out, but the entire north 
side of the room was a fifteen-foot wall of fire. The smoke billowed. I 
absently noted that the smoke was being sucked away into the ceiling. The 
dungeon masters were cheating, offering some sort of ventilation system. 
Otherwise this entire area would’ve been filled with black smoke by now. 
We could only take a couple steps into the room before it got too hot. I 
looked about. The large tables were just gone. Large chunks of stone had 
fallen from the ceiling. Donut jumped on my shoulder as I examined the 
room. 

The boiler on the enormous steam engine looked like a baked potato 
that been peeled open with a bunch of copper sticks coming out of it, like 
tentacles. A steady cloud of angry steam still hissed from the interior of the 
wreckage, mixing with the black smoke. The room was ankle-deep in water, 
and the water sizzled and steamed as it came into the contact with the 
burning wall. 

“We probably should have taken all of the coal from that pile, not just 
half of it,” Donut said. “We’re not getting to that dead boss now.” 

She was right. The coal had ignited, and now our only way into the boss 
chamber was blocked off. 

I was relieved. I wanted that map, but not as much as I didn’t want to go 
in there. I didn’t want to see the dead babies and other goblins. I felt sick 
thinking about it. 

I noticed the line of white dots on the edge of my minimap headed in 
our direction. The dots wouldn’t be white for long. Donut’s charisma had 
ticked up to 39 once she hit level eight, but I doubted even that would be 
enough to save us once they saw what we’d done. 

“Let’s get the hell out of here,” I said. I plotted out a quick escape, 
leading us into unknown territory. We’d have to fight through a quadrant we 


hadn’t explored yet before we could get to another artery. Hopefully it 
wasn’t filled with slimes or some other mob I couldn’t handle. Maybe 
there’d be a safe room to rest in, to sit back and figure out all of these new 
achievements. From there we’d take the chopper and try to find a set of 
stairs. 

“I must admit,” Donut said as we jogged away. “I do like it when you 
blow stuff up. I like it a lot.” 


OceanofPDEF:.com 


Time to Level Collapse: Two days and 18 hours. 


NEW ACHIEVEMENT! You MONSTER! 

You have killed an infant! An infant! 

Okay, okay. Unless you’re a complete psychopath, we know you 
probably didn’t wake up this morning and tell yourself, “Today is the 
day I’m going to slaughter a child.” Well let us put your mind at ease. 
All children mobs who die within this dungeon don’t actually perish. 
They’re transferred to a holding area where they’re safe and treated 
nicely and gently until they can be reunited with their loving parents at 
the end of the season. 

Feel better? Good. 

Reward: These past twenty seconds, when your conscience started to 
ease? That was your reward. It was also a lie. That baby is dead, and 
it’s dead because of you. You’re totally going to hell. 

You’ve also received a Bronze Asshole’s Box. 


New achievement! War Criminal. 
You have killed more than 20 non-combatants in a single attack! 


Question: What’s the only thing standing between an innocent child 
and a happy, fulfilling life? 

Answer: You. The answer is you. 

Reward: You’ve received a Gold Asshole’s Box! 


We’d found a safe room halfway through the neighborhood of the rot 
stickers. The monsters were small and round. They looked like little, black- 
hued raviolis that ran on the walls and ceilings and suicide bombed 
themselves against you. All the ones we’d seen so far were only level one 
and two, but if they managed to stick themselves to your body, they’d 
explode. Each blast felt like getting hit with a sledgehammer. 

The attacks also inflicted Take Down, an effect that was supposed to 
knock you on your ass. Once you hit the ground, I guessed, they’d swarm at 
your head and take you out. The little monsters were everywhere. 
Thankfully my troll skin shirt negated the Take Down effect. 

Donut remained on my shoulder, shooting missiles at the creatures. A 
single blast took out several at a time. So far none had managed to get to 
her. She was quick that way. Despite all that happened, she was still a cat, 
able to jump out of the way at the last second. But just in case, I made her 
drink one of my Iron Skin potions, which upped her natural armor for 
several minutes. I drank one as well. 

The rot stickers usually focused on me anyway, the bigger and slower 
target. One landed directly on my inner thigh and detonated before I could 
get it, the effect equivalent to being kicked in the nads by a horse. I did fall 
down that time. If I hadn’t quaffed the potion, my leg and balls might’ve 
been blown clear off. I was only saved because of a well-timed missile blast 
from Donut. 

Thankfully the raviolis made a loud, chittering noise when they 
approached, and it took them about three seconds to detonate once they 
attached to your body. Once we figured out how they worked, it was easy to 
smash and crush them before they did too much damage. As long as we 
didn’t get surrounded by a giant group of them, we’d probably be okay. 

This safe room was nothing like the last one we’d entered. This was 
more like a small waiting area at a dingy bus station or maybe a DMV 
somewhere. We still had the three screens and the larger bathrooms with 
showers. Plus a water fountain. A set of five cots with curtains around them 


lined one long wall. Two empty, curtained areas appeared at the end of the 
row, and I wondered on that. Had they run out of cots? Or were they 
privacy areas for those who didn’t want a cot? There was no attendant, so I 
couldn’t ask. 

My eyes immediately moved to the number flashing on the first screen. 

3,994,517. 

It had slowed its mad descent toward human extinction, but it hadn’t 
stopped. It made a low, barely audible noise every time it went down. Clink. 
Clink. Clink, clink, clink, like water fast-dripping from a faucet. 

I wondered how many of my fellow people had found a place like this 
and had given up. They were just hunkering down, eating, sleeping, waiting 
for it all to end. I shuddered. 

The third screen read Limited services at this location. Take an 
experience cookie. One per Crawler per day. You deserve it. 

There was a plate on a table filled with what looked like chocolate chip 
cookies. Donut jumped up on the counter and picked it up with her mouth. 
She ate. A +9.8 EXP appeared in the air over her head, rising into the air 
with an audible ping, 8-bit style. Being partied with her, I received the other 
.2 experience. She complained about me “stealing” her experience, and she 
tried to take a second cookie, but her mouth moved right through the plate 
like it wasn’t even there. 

I also ate one of the stale cookies, evening it out. 

The 10 experience points were nothing. A single, level two goblin was 
worth about 50, so this was mostly just a peculiarity of this specific safe 
room. It seemed every one of these rooms had something different and 
unique about it, and the weird cookies were this location’s quirk. 

Looking at the map, I guessed we had about half a mile to go before we 
reached the next artery. From there we would pull the chopper out of my 
inventory and head east in search of a set of stairs. 

But first, rest. 

We had about six hours before the next episode. We decided to take the 
opportunity to sleep. Afterward, we would watch episode two, and then we 
would leave. No more fucking around. We had two and half days. 

In addition to the two baby-killing achievements, I received several 
more including multiple explosive-based achievements, rewarding me with 
several goblin boxes. We both got another bronze Boss Box. I also got a 
gold Looter Box for storing more than a ton of weight in my inventory. 


I received multiple skill upgrades. All of my combat skills had ticked up 
thanks to the rot stickers, including my Smush skill. My Explosives 
Handling, Dangerous Explosives Handling, and Goblin Explosives skills 
rose to 5. I also received a new one: 

IED Skill Level 3. 

It’s one thing to take a grenade and toss it. But it takes a set of brass 
balls the size of basilisk eggs to actually build a bomb. Especially with 
the unreliable crap you find down here. Every level of this skill 
increases the damage yield of improvised explosive devices by 10% and 
decreases the chances of a catastrophic, premature uh-oh by half. 

In addition, I received a popup that told me because my Explosives 
Handling skill was now five, I would receive additional information from 
all bomb-type devices when I examined them. 

An entire new menu appeared in my interface. It was titled Demolitions 
Workshop. I clicked on it, but I received an error message. 

You may only access this menu when you’re standing in front of a 
Sapper’s Table. You may purchase this workbench from a Safe Room 
store. 

Interesting. That was something I’d explore later if we ever made it that 
far. 

Donut received numerous skills and achievements from charming the 
goblins. She received something called a silver Beguiler Box. 

Donut opened her boxes first. She received the usual pile of biscuits and 
torches and potions. From the Boss box, she received her first piece of 
armor. The Beguiler Box contained a tome called Minion Army. She also 
received the same two Asshole Boxes I’d received. The first contained a 
tattoo similar to the goblin pass I’d received earlier. The second, silver box 
contained five potions called Weapon Oil: Weeping Wound. 

She was pissed about the tattoo. Absolutely enraged. I hadn’t seen her 
this upset since Angel the cocker spaniel crunched down and broke one of 
her jingly balls. 

“What gives them the right to just defile me like this? What gives them 
the right!” she cried. “Oh my god! It’s a disqualifying mark. It’s a 
disqualifying mark, Carl! I’m damaged!” 

The mark appeared on her back, just over her right shoulder blade. 
She’d screamed and hissed with outrage when it branded itself to her. It was 
hard to discern what it was. While it glowed through her fur, she had so 


much hair that it looked like nothing but a gold-colored splotch. I suspected 
I would get one, too, in a few minutes. I gently touched it, and it let me read 
the description: 

Desperado Pass. 

Great. Now you’re running with the type of kids who sit in the back 
of the bus. What would your mother say? 

This pass allows access to the Desperado Club. 

Warning: Holding a Desperado Pass negates the ability to obtain a 
Vanquisher pass. 

That was it. It didn’t explain anything about what the hell that meant. 

Donut continued to bitch about it for several minutes. Finally, she 
moved on. With a pop, the silver, scale armor appeared draped over the 
back half of her body. It reached about halfway down to the floor. I couldn’t 
tell how it was attached to her, but it seemed to stay put. It was like a skirt, 
almost, though it didn’t cover her stomach. It had a slot especially for her 
tail. She started turning in circles, trying to look at it. 

“How’s it look? How’s it look? Does it cover the tattoo?” 

“Its fine,’ I said as I examined its properties. “It doesn’t cover the 
tattoo, not even close, but it looks great.” 

Enchanted Fae Scale Quadruped Crupper of the Fleet. 

Boy is that a fucking mouthful. By the gods. 

+2 to Dexterity. 

Light and flexible, this scale armor is made from Fae Steel. While 
not as strong as Elven mail or even good Orcish steel, it’s the strongest 
alloy that fairy folk can wear. It’s not the best protection, but itll make 
your ass look oh so pretty. 

The tome of Minion Army taught a spell that cost 50 spell points to cast. 
It caused hostile enemies to fight for you instead of against you. It was a 
great spell, but Donut only currently had 24 spell points, so it was useless 
for now. She tried reading the book anyway, but it wouldn’t let her. 
Apparently you couldn’t teach yourself spells you couldn’t cast. She pouted 
for a good minute straight afterward. 

“Don’t worry,” I said. “We’ll either trade it in for something better, or 
you can use it later.” 

The last item she’d received was that oil, which was something one 
could apply to edged weapons to make the wound bleed longer. 


It was my turn. I also received a ton of crap. More potions, more 
dynamite, another lighter, a couple smoke bombs, a couple more scrolls of 
Confusing Fog. I received no pants or shoes. I got the exact same items 
from the two Asshole Boxes, though my tattoo appeared on my goddamned 
neck. I couldn’t even see it, but it burned as it was magically applied. 

“It’s a dagger dripping blood,” Donut said, examining it close. “My 
word is it ghastly. Miss Beatrice is going to absolutely shit when she sees it 
on me.” 

From the boss box I’d received another ring of constitution, this one +2. 
I put it on my left ring finger, bringing my score up to 12. 

From the gold Looter Box I received a single item. A potion. 

Skill Potion. 

Drinking this adds a single level to the Determine Value skill. 
Hopefully now you’ll realize all those Magic: The Gathering cards are 
nothing more than just meaningless pieces of paper, and you should 
have spent your money on something with actual value, like a 
treadmill. Or shampoo. 

I immediately added it to my hotlist and drank. Nothing seemed to 
happen, but when I opened up my inventory, I had a new ability. While this 
first level of the skill didn’t tell me the actual worth of any of the items 
listed there, it now allowed me to sort them by value, which I did. 

The first item on the list was that Tome of Wisp Armor. The second was 
the Chopper. And after that was the single Hobgoblin Detonator I still had. 
The next several items were pieces of goblin equipment we’d looted from 
the workshop, including one of the tables, which was listed as an Engineer’s 
Table. The list didn’t include the items I currently had equipped. I suspected 
my troll skin shirt would be the top of the list otherwise. 

Finally done with our skills and loot, I decided to take a nap on the 
uncomfortable cot. Donut, still bitching about the tattoo, curled up with me. 

You Monster. 

I tried to pry the achievement out of my head. It was just another stupid 
joke. The game didn’t care that I’d killed children. It wanted me to kill 
them. The room was set up for it to happen exactly as it had. We were 
supposed to kill or otherwise clear out the workshop. We were supposed to 
either blow up that room or do exactly what we did. It was a trap just as 
much as the bulldozer had been a trap. And those kids had been placed 
there, in that room, for that express purpose. They’d existed only to die. I 


couldn’t blame myself, or feel guilty. Donut was right. This wasn’t my 
fault. Not at all. 

I looked up at the ceiling. Someone had carved their initials in the cheap 
tile. AMW. I wondered who they were, and when they’d carved it. If they 
were alive now. This place had no signs, so I couldn’t tell where it had 
come from. It didn’t feel American, but I wasn’t sure. It didn’t matter 
anymore. This was a place from my world. A place these aliens had stolen. 

“You’re not going to break me,” I said. “You might hurt me, or kill me, 
but you’re not going to break me.” 

I turned on my side to sleep. On my neck, Donut cuddled closer. Her 
new skirt thing pushed into my skin, but it felt oddly comforting. She 
purred so loud it vibrated my teeth. 


OceanofPDE. com 


[ 20 ] 


I WAS AWAKENED BY THE START OF THE SHOW ON THE TELEVISION SCREEN. 

“Day two,” the orange, lizard-like announcer was saying. It still spoke 
in that odd, barely recognizable version of the Syndicate common speech. It 
was like trying to understand someone speaking with a deep Cajun accent. 
Sure, they were speaking English, but to my brain, they might as well be 
speaking Klingon. 

“Do you think we’ ll be on it this time?” Donut asked, scrambling out of 
bed to sit on one of the chairs. “We blew up half the dungeon! That’s gotta 
count for something, don’t you think? My word, I am so excited I could just 
wee. Actually, I do gotta wee.” She scrambled from her chair and headed 
toward the women’s room, which would have a litterbox waiting for her. 

But she rocketed back from around the corner just a minute later. 

“Carl, Carl! He’s here. He’s in the bathroom! The women’s bathroom. 
The killer! The guy who killed Rebecca W!” 

I leaped to my feet. I immediately saw the blue dot on my map, right 
there. 

How? Surely I would’ve noticed it the moment I woke up. I’d gotten 
used to keeping one eye on the map. I was always looking out for others. I 
mentally kicked myself as I rushed forward. I focused on the dot. 

Crawler Frank Q. 

That was him, all right. 

“Come on,” I said. I pushed my way toward the side hallway with the 
bathrooms. 

We met in the hall, the man stepping out of the restroom, smiling 
apologetically. We came to a stop just a few feet away from one another. We 


just stared for a couple moments, sizing each other up. Donut stood 
between my legs and started hissing. 

He was a tall man, lean, but not quite as tall as me. About forty. I 
pegged him as either military or a cop based on the way he carried himself. 
He was a white dude and he hadn’t shaved in a few days. Good looking, but 
not remarkably so. A Seahawks beanie covered what I guessed to be a bald 
head. He wore filthy, ripped jeans and a black t-shirt. He was also equipped 
with what appeared to be football shoulder pads, but they were made of 
glowing black metal, obviously enchanted. The shoulders were spiked. It 
wouldn’t let me examine the properties. He wore heavy boots, which I eyed 
jealously. 

I assumed he had a gun hidden away somewhere, but I didn’t see it now. 
Instead, he carried a massive battle axe over his shoulder. The iron, single- 
headed weapon looked well-used. He also wore a belt with a line of 
throwing knives. 

I examined his properties as he did the same to me. 

Crawler #324,119. “Frank Q.” 

Level 8. 

Race: Human. 

Class: Not yet assigned. 

He did not have any stars by his name, which meant he’d never killed a 
boss. But he had something else. 

Three skulls. 

I knew exactly what the skulls were going to indicate even before I 
focused on them. 

Crawler Killer X 3. 

I suddenly felt very cold. 

“Sorry, I didn’t mean to startle your cat,” the man said. He had an 
authoritative voice. Definitely a cop, or some sort of law enforcement. They 
taught you to speak that way in training. “That is a cat, right? I thought if I 
slept in the bathroom, nobody could sneak up on me. I didn’t realize the 
bathrooms in the safe areas were different than the ones out in the 
hallways.” He paused. “Where are your pants? And your shoes? Have you 
been walking barefoot this whole time?” He looked me up and down, 
alternating between me and the cat, a look of wry amusement. “Also, what’s 
up with your name? Royal bodyguard?” 


“So you were asleep in there, in the women’s room?” I asked, ignoring 
his questions. 

He paused. He tilted his head, as if deciding whether he wanted to 
answer or not. “Yeah,” he said finally. “I hadn’t slept in over 24 hours. I 
found this safe room, dragged one of those cots in there, and I passed out. I 
must’ve been out for 12 hours straight. Stupid, I know.” 

If that was true, then he’d have been asleep when we’d arrived. Hadn’t 
Donut used the bathroom? I couldn’t remember. 

Carl: Donut, did you use the bathroom before we went to sleep? 

Donut: I DID NOT I WENT IN THE HALLWAY BATHROOM 
BEFORE WE FOUND THIS ROOM. 

“I never saw your dot on the minimap,” I said. 

“You don’t see the icons of sleeping crawlers,” he said. “Have you ever 
seen someone outside your party sleeping in a safe room? Their bodies 
become translucent. If you touch them, your hand moves right through 
them. Are you from Seattle? I’m still pretty close to where I came in, but I 
haven’t been able to find any staircases down to the second level.” 

Donut, who had been hissing and growling this whole time, couldn’t 
take it anymore. “You killed Rebecca W!” she shouted. 

The man just stared at the cat for several moments. “Holy shit,” he 
finally said. “I thought that’s what I’d heard. A talking cat. This fucking 
place.” 

Donut hissed in response. Behind us, I heard the clash of steel on the 
television screen. They’d started showing the day’s recap. 

“Did you know her?” the man asked. “Rebecca Wong?” 

“He admits it! The criminal has confessed!” Donut cried. “I’m gonna hit 
him with a magic missile.” She jumped up on my shoulder and started to 
wiggle her butt. 

“Wait, wait,” he said. He took a step back and held up his hands. “I 
didn’t... It’s not what it looks like. I didn’t have a choice.” 

“We didn’t know her,” I said. “We just came across her body.” 

He seemed to relax. “Look, I can explain,” he said. “It wasn’t just her. 
There were five of them. My partner got one, I got three, and you would not 
believe the thing that killed the fifth guy. It’s a long story. Can you, uh, put 
down your cat?” 

“Put me down?” 


“That’s not what he meant,” I said. “Donut. Chill.” This was the first 
living human we’d run across, and I wanted to get his story. I didn’t trust 
him as far as I could throw him, but I wanted to hear what he had to say 
first. 

Donut grumbled something under her breath. 

“Where’s your partner?” I asked. 

He paused. “She’s dead. Shot.” 

After a moment, I nodded. “Let’s go to the other room. We’re missing 
the show. We can talk in there.” 

“Okay,” he said. He eyed Donut warily, who made a spitting noise. Her 
fur was completely poofed out. 

“Did you see the last episode?” I asked. 

“Yes,” the man—Frank—said. He took a seat about 10 feet away, near 
the exit. He draped his left arm over the chair, trying to appear casual, but I 
could see his entire body was tense. “There’s another rest area about three 
miles east of here. That one has a restaurant in it. That whole block is now 
overrun with thorny, creeping plants that will eat you whole. I found this 
place while looking for the stairs. The rot stickers outside pack a punch.” 

On the screen it showed a group of about 40 middle-eastern men 
fighting a borough boss. The creature was an armored, elephant-sized, six- 
legged rhinoceros-like monstrosity with tentacles on its back. The tentacles 
seemed to have an ability that turned the men into stone. The monster had 
been hurt badly, but it ended up killing all 40 of the men. Half of them had 
been turned to stone. A moment later, the creature fell over and died. The 
display froze, and Match Draw appeared on the screen. 

“Tell us your story,” I said, “and then we’ ll tell you ours.” 

I kept one eye on the screen, which was showing one adventuring 
disaster after another, and one eye on the man as he recounted his tale. 
Frank claimed he and his partner, a woman named Maggie, worked for 
“Customs Enforcement,” which was a nice way of saying he was a fed, and 
he worked for ICE. They’d been in plain clothes, outside in that ridiculously 
cold weather doing some sort of surveillance on a warehouse. The place 
was right on the water, supposedly employing a large group of 
undocumented Chinese workers. When the collapse came, the warehouse 
disappeared, revealing a group of about 15 men and women who’d been 
outside, smoking on a patio. Frank and his partner identified themselves, 
and everyone just started shooting at each other. The dungeon opened up 


right in the middle of their firefight. His partner, Maggie, stumbled into the 
stairwell, and it wouldn’t let go of her. So he went in with her. Five of the 
others, for reasons he said he couldn’t fathom, followed them in. 

He went on to recount a firefight in the hallway. Of a confrontation with 
their leader—Rebecca W—who’d shot him three times before he got her 
right in the heart. He’d thought he was going to die, but he’d healed 
amazingly fast. He’d looted her body and chased down the last one, only to 
see the man get eaten by a plant monster, a thing that came out of a giant 
pod. It was called a vine creeper. I’d seen one of them during the show’s 
premiere. From there Frank found a tutorial guild, his wounds were fully 
healed, and here he was. He’d been using his gun and the ones he’d looted 
from the others, but he was now out of ammo. 

“That one,” he said. “Rebecca. Rebecca Wong. She was the boss of the 
operation. A human trafficker. A modern-day slave driver. We were days 
away from taking down the whole operation.” 

“You poor man,” Donut said at the end of his story. Her demeanor 
toward him had made a complete turn. “I am just devasted about your 
partner.” 

He shrugged. “I appreciate that.” He went up and grabbed a cookie. He 
ate it, and the +9.8 EXP notification dinged over his head. 

“Was this Rebecca the one who killed your partner?” I asked. I watched 
the notification over the man’s head fade away. 

“No,” he said, shaking his head. The man sat back down. “It was one of 
her goons, the same guy who got killed by the vine creeper. He shot 
Maggie.” The man lowered her head. 

The show had moved to the second half of the program, showing 
humans who were performing well. A woman dressed in snow gear and 
what looked like a Valkyrie helmet had an enchanted crossbow that shot 
firebolts. It showed her plowing through a group of dog-faced goblin things. 
Gnolls. 

“Hey,” I said. “Since you looted those guys you killed, I don’t suppose 
you have any pants that might fit me in that bag of yours? Or shoes?” 

He paused. “Sure, boss. If you don’t mind wearing the clothes of a dead 
man.” 

Carl: Donut. Do not say anything out loud. Can you see this? 

Donut: WHAT IS HAPPENING? 


Carl: Don’t type in all caps. I think Frank is going to try to hurt or 
incapacitate us. This is important. Do not react. Do not fight back at 
all. Whatever you do, don’t fire a magic missile. Just let it happen. 
Trust me on this. I’m going to present an opening. I want to entice him 
into action. 

Donut: WHAT DO YOU MEAN. FRANK IS AN AMERICAN 
HERO. 

Carl: Frank is full of shit. He’s lying. I think there might be 
somebody else in here with us, and they are getting ready to jump us. 
Pll explain in a minute. We’re going to have to run. Get ready. 

Donut: IDO NOT LIKE THIS, CARL. 

A pair of khaki pants appeared in his hand. They had an enormous blood 
stain down the side of them. He tossed them to me. “These are the biggest 
pants I have. I don’t know if they’ll fit you or not. I have a couple pairs of 
shoes in here, too, but it doesn’t say what their sizes are.” 

“Thanks,” I said. I paused, waiting to see if he would toss me a pair of 
shoes, but he was making a show of pretending to sort through his 
inventory. He wanted me to try the pants on first, which I noticed right 
away were much too small. And they were women’s pants. I sighed. Oh 
well. 

I stood and turned my back. I made motions like I was pulling my 
kneepads off. 

Everything that happened next occurred over the course of less than a 
second. 

I saw the blue dot appear in the bathroom hallway, just as the woman 
emerged from around the corner. At the same moment, Donut leaped into 
the air with a panicked yowl as Frank pulled his weapon from his inventory 
and fired at the cat. 

The woman, pistol aimed directly at my head, also fired. 

On the television, Lucia Mar, along with her two rottweilers, Cici and 
Gustavo 3, tore through a group of red, demon-like monsters. The girl was 
like a demon herself, savagely swinging her mace. 

Donut landed on the table with the cookies. Her body slid, moving 
through the plate, which disappeared and reappeared as if it wasn’t really 
there. Her feet scrambled as she plummeted off the edge of the table. She 
hit the floor and bounced back up, screaming at the top of her lungs. “Carl, 
Carl! Help!” 


“I’m here,” I said. “We gotta go now. We have less than two minutes.” 

She paused, looking back and forth between me and the two frozen 
Crawlers. Both had the word Naughty blazing over their head. I recounted 
my earlier discussion with Mordecai. This was after Donut had eaten the 
enhanced pet biscuit and while we’d waited for her to transform. 

“You said they teleport out of here if she turns into a monster. So 
monsters can’t ever get into safe areas? What if I leave the door open? They 
won’t be able to wander in?” 

“Oh, they’ll wander in,” Mordecai said. “Always close the door. If it’s a 
mob, it’ll teleport away the moment it attacks you. But they’ll trash the 
place, too.” 

“What if Donut doesn’t turn into a monster, but she also doesn’t 
recognize me? She sometimes bites people she doesn’t recognize. Will she 
teleport away then?” 

“No. It’s different for crawlers. There’s no violence and no stealing in 
the safe rooms. It’s a strict, ironclad rule. You get three strikes. The first 
time, you freeze in place for about 100 seconds while you get an automated 
lecture on playing nice. The second time it’s for an hour. The third time 
you’re stripped of all your gear and teleported into a mob nest.” 

So when Frank Q and his partner—her name really was Maggie. 
Maggie My—decided to kill us to take our gear or whatever the hell they 
were doing, they made the mistake of using a safe area as their point of 
attack. It obviously was their first—and last—attempt at doing it that way. 

“But how did you know?” Donut cried, looking between the two frozen 
people. They had been frozen the very moment they’d pulled the triggers. 
The bullets didn’t appear to have even left the barrels yet. “Are you 
psychic? And where did this lady come from? I just don’t understand. This 
is very distressing.” 

“We don’t have time,” I said as I added the pants to my inventory. I had 
a vague notion to pick Frank up, rearrange him so his gun was facing his 
partner, but I was afraid the system would count that as an act of violence 
on my part. “We gotta go now.” 

Before we rushed outside, I took a precious second to examine the 
attributes of Maggie My. 

She was about the same age as Frank, so around forty years old, 
athletic. A white woman with closely-cropped, brown hair. She wore 
shining, metallic pants and boots. She wore a leather jacket similar to my 


own—though hers had both of their sleeves. She didn’t appear to hold any 
weapons other than her gun. 

Crawler #324,116. “Maggie My.” 

Level 9. 

Race: Human. 

Class: Not yet assigned. 

She had five skulls next to her name. 

Between her and Frank, they’d killed eight people. Eight. They both had 
the ability to go completely stealth. I doubted they had been sleeping in the 
bathroom. They’d likely heard that explosion from earlier and tracked us to 
the safe room. We’d left a wake of dead rot stickers along the way, a literal 
path of destruction to this space. 

Frank had said people turned translucent when they slept. Was that true? 
It certainly wasn’t true for Donut, but she was also in my party. Maybe they 
had meant to sneak up on us and kill us in our sleep, but when they realized 
they couldn’t, they’d gone to the bathroom to wait. Maybe the plan was to 
sneak up on me from behind while I went to the men’s room. I didn’t know. 

We jumped outside, and I plotted a path to the closest main artery. I 
downed an Iron Skin potion and gave one to Donut, making her drink it. A 
couple of red dot clusters appeared between here and there. I didn’t want to 
waste time fighting them. The hallway was too thin, the ground too bumpy 
to use the chopper. Plus, one blast from a rot sticker was likely to turn the 
powered bicycle into a bomb. So we ran. I wanted to avoid the mobs if we 
could. Every mob we left alive was one they’d have to deal with. 

“Why are we running?” Donut asked. “We can take them.” 

“T don’t know if we can,” I said. “They both have guns. He’s level eight, 
the same as us, and she’s level nine. Getting to nine is hard, so she probably 
has a lot of skills. Besides, I really don’t want to have one of those skull 
markers by my name. Even if they have it coming, everyone else we meet 
won’t know that. We will never get anyone to talk to us.” 

“But if we don’t stop them, they’ll hurt somebody else.” 

I stopped dead in the hallway. I looked at the cat. It was a very un- 
Donut-like thing to say. But worse, it was the truth. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. I looked back over my shoulder in the 
direction of the safe room. They’d be awake already by now, though I 
suspected—and hoped—they wouldn’t just come running. 


They probably were going to hurt somebody else. If they could find 
someone. But what could we do? 

Donut fired a magic missile, killing a group of the regular level two rats 
that seemed to infest every corridor regardless of neighborhood. The rats 
sizzled and fell onto their backs. One of them dropped a poor rat skin and a 
rat steak. 

“Don’t take that inventory,” I said. “Cancel it out.” 

Donut huffed but complied. She loved looting corpses. The person to 
kill a mob had first right to loot for a couple minutes after the battle, but if 
they canceled out the box, the corpse became fair game. 

I had an idea, but I didn’t know if it would work. We didn’t have time, 
but I needed to test it. I pulled one of the goblin smoke bombs out of my 
stash, lit the wick, and then quickly added it to the rat’s inventory. It let me 
do it. Like with most games, it allowed me to add items to the corpse’s 
inventory as if it was a chest. The rat had a grid pattern inventory that 
looked as if it couldn’t hold very much. This was how inventory had been 
for crawlers last season. 

I had to see if the smoke bomb remained lit. They’d said that items 
didn’t retain their momentum, but what about this? Thanks to my level 5 in 
Explosives Handling, now when I examined incendiary items, I received 
some extra information: 

Goblin Smoke Bomb. 

Type: Deflagration. 

Effect: Opaque smoke over a 10 meter radius for 3 minutes. 

Status: Good. 89/100 

Emits a stinking cloud of billowing, multi-color smoke that lasts for 
three minutes before disbursing. Use to either confuse enemies or as a 
stage prop at a hair metal concert. 

It didn’t say the bomb was lit. I pulled the bomb out, and to my relief, 
the wick still crackled and spit. I quickly added it back to the rat’s grid. 
Everything was the same, but the Status had changed to Discharge 
Imminent 34/100. 

I then examined my pile of goblin dynamite. They were all out of 50, 
not 100, and all of them were either in Detonation Imminent or Danger. It 
appeared the Danger warning appeared once the status was below 15. 

I gingerly removed the most unstable piece of dynamite I had, one that 
was 10/50 and added it to the rat’s inventory without lighting it. I noted, 


despite me handling the dynamite as carefully as I could, it’d gone down to 
9/50. Jesus. I was lucky I hadn’t blown myself to bits earlier. This next one 
was at 13/50. I lit it and then quickly added it to the rat’s inventory. 

If they followed, they’d likely come down this same hall. That guy had 
picked Rebecca W’s corpse clean, including her clothes. People who did 
that were the type to loot everything. If they came across the rat, hopefully 
they’d think we’d been in too much of a hurry to stop and loot for 
ourselves. Rats didn’t normally drop stuff other than skin and meat. It was 
suspicious as fuck. But, maybe... maybe we’d get lucky. If Frank did pull 
the three items out of the rat inventory, it would literally blow up in his 
hands. 

For now, it was the best we could do. 

“Okay,” I said, nervously looking over my shoulder. I remembered they 
could go invisible, at least on the map. “Let’s go.” 

We turned, and we kept running for the artery. 

“How did you know?” Donut asked as we continued to jog. 

“He was lying. He was lying right from the start,” I said. 

“So he’s not a federal agent?” she asked. Her breaths were coming in 
wheezes, but the hallway was close. 

“I don’t know,” I said. “I think he might be. He talks and acts like a cop. 
But his whole story was bullshit. That Rebecca woman was a level three. 
He said they’d gotten into a firefight right away, but that couldn’t be true. 
She had that apple core in her inventory. That meant she’d gone to a tutorial 
guild and gotten her inventory turned on. And then he ate that cookie, and I 
saw he received 9.8 experience instead of 10, which meant he was in a 
party with someone. Someone alive. Also, he had his arm draped over the 
chair, and I could see he was twitching his finger. He was typing into the 
chat. He hadn’t figured out how to use it with just his brain.” 

Donut stared up at me as we ran. 

“How is it you’re James Bond when it comes to strangers, but Miss 
Beatrice could date three different guys at once, and you had no idea?” 

“Three different guys?” 

“Well, you were one of them, so two, I guess. Then again, it’s three if 
you count Angel’s owner. Does it count as cheating when it’s with another 
woman? There's so many human nuances I don't understand.” 

“Of course it counts as cheating,” I said. For fuck’s sake. 


“But you were always watching those videos on your iPad with the two 
women rolling around and cleaning each other. Would it have been cheating 
if Miss Beatrice let you watch?” 

“We’re not having this conversation right now, Donut.” 

We reached the hallway and I pulled the chopper out of my inventory. 
This would be the first time we would actually drive the thing. I tossed a 
lump of coal into the hopper and prayed it wouldn’t explode on us. As we 
prepared to leave, the dungeon reverberated with an announcement. It was 
the daily update. 

Hello, Crawlers. Another excellent, exciting day! We are very happy 
to have you with us, and we hope everyone is having a great time. 
You’re really bringing it, and we at Borant truly appreciate the 
enthusiasm you’re giving to this production. 

I have a couple of announcements. First off, we want to assure 
everyone that we have quashed all the bugs with the new toilets. Both 
the exploding issue and the, ah, unfortunate suction issue with some of 
the units have been resolved. There is absolutely no need to be afraid of 
them. Those of you who have been using the hallways to relieve 
yourselves, please stop. We don’t want to have to start using punitive 
measures. 

A couple additional patch notes... We have added support for all of 
the languages that were missing from our library. So for those of you 
who are hearing this and finally understanding what I’m saying for the 
first time... welcome. You’ll figure the rest out ’m sure. Also with the 
languages, we’ve implemented full cross support for native speech. So 
now Mandarin speakers will understand English speakers and so forth. 

The Feral Rabies debuff is now curable with a health potion or 
spell. And the contagion is no longer airborne. Sorry about that, New 
Zealand. 

We have removed the Blender Fiend mobs. The mob’s difficulty 
level appears to be too high. Their collective gets stronger each time 
they, uh, blend, and after working their way through a group of 15,000 
crawlers in a single day, we’ve been forced to take action to prevent a 
premature extinction event. Rest assured they will be re-introduced on 
a lower floor. The Street Preacher neighborhood boss has been 
upgraded to a borough boss. In addition, we have tweaked the strength 


levels of a few dozen other mobs, too many to mention here. So just be 
aware of that. 

One last note. A lot of crawlers are heading into the stairways 
prematurely. Again, it’s your choice, but it’s probably best for you to 
get as much experience as you can. And just so you know for later, we 
won’t feature you on the recap episode if viewers can’t tunnel into your 
feed. So if you hit the stairs three or four days before a collapse, you are 
going to miss out. 

That’s it for now. Keep up the good work, and kill, kill, kill! 

“We didn’t get to see the rest of the show,” Donut said. “Do you think 
we were on it?” 

“I doubt it,” I said. I eased onto the alligator skull seat. Underneath me, 
the whole bike rumbled with potential energy. It had pedals like a bicycle, 
but it also had a throttle. I had to move the bike by pumping my legs, but 
once I reached the speed I wanted, I turned the throttle, and the bike would 
lock that speed in place. It was a strange setup. 

The engine built into the chassis was already getting hot. I would have 
to spread my legs out to keep from getting burned to hell. I sighed. I really, 
really needed pants. 

Donut jumped up into her sidecar seat. She started licking her paw as 
we zoomed off down the road, trying to put as much distance between us 
and that neighborhood as we could. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 21 ] 


Time to Level Collapse: 47 hours 


IF FRANK AND MAGGIE FOUND MY TRAP, I DIDN’T RECEIVE A NOTIFICATION. 
The best case scenario was that they were both dead, and I didn’t get credit 
for it. Of all the achievements in this game, Crawler Killer was one I 
wanted to avoid. 

I did not receive any sort of achievement or skill for setting a trap, and it 
was a Safe bet that’d be a thing here. I took that as a good sign. Donut and I 
did, however, receive an achievement for our “fight” with Frank Q and 
Maggie My. 

New Achievement! Bitchmeat! 

You’ve been attacked by a fellow crawler in a safe zone, and the 
system has been forced to save your ass. That usually suggests you’re 
either really annoying, or you snore. 

If this were a prison, you would now be my bitch. Wait... 

Reward: Bitches don’t get rewards. 

I laughed. For the first time since we’d entered this ridiculous game, I 
laughed at one of the stupid notifications. 

The ride was significantly smoother than I anticipated. We got about 
three or four miles per lump of coal, and I had an almost endless supply. 

We only managed to travel east for a single junction before we hit a 
wall, and we were forced to choose between north and south. If the map in 


my head was accurate, we’d hit the edge of Lake Washington above, once 
again proving that the dungeon didn’t truly circle the planet. We went south, 
traveling down a rough approximation of the I-5 corridor for a short time 
before passages that went east and west started re-appearing. I strongly 
suspected we needed to head east and inland before we saw any stairwells. 
But the problem was directly east was a large mountain range up above, and 
if the dungeon had been desolate before, it’d be downright abandoned here. 
Not for another 100 miles. 

We decided to resume our trek east anyway, heading further away from 
the western edge of the U.S. coastline. 

We drove for hours, seeing no sign of people or mobs or stairwells. It 
was difficult to gauge how fast we were actually moving, but I guessed it 
was about 20 miles per hour. My Chopper Pilot skill rose steadily as I 
drove. Once I hit level 5, the throttle actually allowed me to increase our 
speed. 

I didn’t want to go too fast, but I felt it was important to find a denser 
area of the labyrinth. From what little I’?d seen on the show, I knew there 
were areas different than this. I had the sense that these giant squares were 
nothing more than just filler, like the randomly generated terrain at the edge 
of some maps in open-world games. 

As we drove, I made Donut keep her map on full screen so she could 
better scan the area, looking for points of interest. We saw fewer and fewer 
training guilds out here, but they were there. The bathrooms continued to be 
all over the place, and rest areas dotted the maps, too. 

My thoughts wandered to my father. If he could only see me now, 
sitting on this thing, holding my legs out so they wouldn’t burn on the side 
of the glorified moped. He’d laugh, call me a damn fool. He’d been a 
motorcycle guy. Not a full-time, leather-clad biker. He was more of a 
weekend warrior. 

I hadn’t talked to or heard from the man in over 12 years. Not since he’d 
abandoned me that day, leaving me all alone in the world. 

Before today, I’d never been on a motorcycle in my life, not that this 
thing really counted as one. I had a bicycle now that I sometimes rode to 
work if the weather was good, but I’d never even ridden on a dirt bike, let 
alone anything more powerful. 

We stopped once to use a restroom that appeared just off the main 
corridor. Once we entered the hallway, we were beset by a group of bipedal, 


raccoon-headed monsters that were as tall as my knee. These things were 
called Scat Thugs, and the ones here on the edge of the corridor were all 
level three. They were about as strong as regular goblins and were armed 
with needle-like spears. A pair charged me and got skewered by my knee 
pads. I took all their spears as loot, which were useless to me, but hopefully 
Pd be able to sell them later. 

We used the bathroom—thankfully neither of us exploded—and we 
headed out on our way. 

But the short excursion taught me something important. Those mobs 
were right there, barely twenty feet from the edge of the never-ending 
artery. We hadn’t seen their dots until we’d stopped the bike and 
approached the boundary of the alley. The fog of war encroached tighter 
upon us the faster we were going. That was important to know. We needed a 
skill or a spell or some sort of special ability that would allow us to navigate 
better. We were literally driving blind, and I didn’t like that. It was only a 
matter of time before we drove headfirst into a trap. 

We decided to go back on the road, heading deeper east. I moved 
slower. 

And then, after several hours, we finally saw something new. 

I stopped the Chopper, examining the spray-painted sign on the wall. 

“Two crossroads east, three south. Stairs + People.” 

It was written in English in red, runny spray paint. I ran my hand across 
it. It didn’t come off on my finger, but it had a tacky texture. The paint was 
only hours old. 

“Do you think it’s a trap?” Donut asked. 

“Maybe,” I said. 

Now that we’d stopped, I could see several x’s on my map, indicating 
mob corpses just down the hallways. We ventured in to get a better look. 
These were white, horned goat things with mouths full of fangs. I examined 
the first one. 

Lootable Corpse. Chilly Goat. Level 4. Killed by Crawler Brandon 
An with an assist by Crawler Chris Andrews 2. 

Inventory is empty. 

I examined all the goats in the area, and I counted 15 different names 
who had either killed or assisted in the slaying of the mobs. The goats had 
been sliced, fried with spells, and I saw several broken arrow shafts, though 


the arrow heads themselves were all gone. Some of the monsters were 
literally smashed flat, like the person had an enormous hammer. 

“T’m pretty sure it’s not a trap,” I said. “Let’s go find them.” 

The spray painted notifications continued the closer we got to the area. 

Right where the sign told us to go was a T-junction. I coasted to a stop. 
The Chopper made a chug-chug-chug noise. It would need another lump 
soon. I was getting good at understanding its sounds and vibrations. My ass 
was killing me, and my legs ached. On the ground was an arrow, pointing 
left, which was further east. 

Looking at the map, I could see this area was different than any place 
we’d entered before. The east and west roads didn’t continue straight, but 
they curved away, indicating we’d come to the edge of a massive circle. 

I suddenly had an uneasy feeling about what might be at the center of 
this area. 

“T see the stairwell,” Donut said. “If you zoom out the map, it’s right on 
the edge of what we can see.” 

Sure enough. In the area immediately south, and presumably in the 
center of this giant loop, there appeared to be a stairwell. I hovered over the 
white square on the map, and it simply read Stairwell to Floor Two. 

I didn’t see any other blue dots or anything else. Just the empty expanse 
of the fog of war. 

“Look, there’s something written on the ground,” Donut said, pointing 
down the left hallway. 

After a minute’s hesitation, I stored the chopper, and we went toward 
the sign on foot. 

“This road is safe. We are gathered a mile and a half this way. DO NOT 
go deeper into the spiral or you will activate the borough boss.” 

Shit. Mordecai had said the bosses wouldn’t be guarding the stairwells 
until the fourth floor. 

“I wonder what’s in there,” Donut asked, looking at the solid wall to our 
right. 

Just as she said it, the wall rumbled as something rushed past on the 
other side. It was like we were standing on a train platform. Whatever it 
was, it was something fast. Something big. 

Very, very big. 

We walked on foot. After about a quarter mile, a rounded portcullis 
appeared on our right, leading toward the center of the circle. The cross- 


beam gate was lifted about halfway up the floor. We’d be able to slip under 
and go deeper into the loop if we wanted. There appeared to be another ring 
just inside. The graffiti had called it a spiral. Looking inside, I could see 
another doorway just down this wide, interior hallway. So it was more like a 
round maze than a spiral. 

If we slid under the gate, it would no doubt slide closed and trap us. 

“Let’s wait a second,” I said. “I want to see what it is.” 

We didn’t have to wait long. The creature, whatever it was, rushed by in 
a flash, too fast for me to get an info box. It rolled like a ball. It was pink, 
fleshy, and it was the size of the entire hallway. It was like a nightmare Pac- 
man monster. It made a terrible grunting noise as it rocketed by, shaking the 
walls. The stench of sewage wafted up as it passed. 

“My heavens,” Donut said, crinkling her face like I’d tried to feed her 
vegetables. “This is going to be unpleasant.” 


OceanofPDE:com 


“LET’S SEE IF WE CAN FIND WHO’S MAKING THESE SIGNS,” I SAID. 

We passed three more of the rounded entrances before we came across 
the encampment. 

It was a full quarter turn from where we started, at the end of another 
artery. My heart swelled when I saw the sheer number of people there. 
There were about forty blue dots gathered at what appeared to be a 
drawbridge leading into the round maze. 

My enthusiasm waned when I saw the manner of people waiting for us. 

Almost all of them were still level one. And they were elderly. Not cool 
grandpa dude at the club elderly. But holy-crap-I-love-you-gam-gam-but- 
how-the-hell-are-you-still-alive elderly. Most of them were in wheelchairs. 
Those who weren’t had walkers. Most were in robes and caps, and piles of 
blankets littered the hallway. They sat gathered together. Most appeared to 
be asleep. 

Another older woman stood apart from the group. This one was pushing 
70, not 100 like the others. She stood stiffly, her black eyes watching us. 
This woman was wrapped head to toe in an endless amount of scarves, and 
her skin was like a relief map of a shriveled prune. A red checkered trapper 
hat with ear flaps sat skewed on her head. She leaned on a shopping cart 
filled to the brim with blankets and other odds and ends including a plastic 
pink flamingo that had an arrow stuck in its head. 

I remembered the stairs I’d had to descend, and I wondered how they’d 
managed to get the wheelchairs and shopping cart down here. 


I caught sight of a group of younger, more able-bodied crawlers. One of 
them, a chubby black guy, saw us approach and waved. He came jogging 
up. 

“Oh thank god,” the man said. “Did you see our signs?” 

“We did,” I said. I examined his properties. 

Crawler #12,330,671. “Brandon An.” 

Level 6. 

Race: Human. 

Class: Not yet assigned. 

He had a single bronze star by his name. The man wore a heavy winter 
jacket despite the heat. He had a gigantic hammer looped over his shoulder. 
The weapon was comically big. The round head was almost as wide as the 
tire on my Chopper. It glittered, obviously made of some sort of magical, 
lightweight metal. He didn’t appear to have any other armor or gear. 

“We?” the man said, frowning as he examined my properties. He took a 
hesitant step back, as if he was startled. “Is there more than one of you?” He 
looked down at Donut, and his frown deepened. 

For a moment I was afraid that I had received a skull next to my name 
without realizing. But then I remembered what my real title was. It didn’t 
Say my name was Carl. It said I was Royal Bodyguard Carl, and Donut 
was Grand Champion Best in Dungeon Princess Donut. 

I could only imagine how that looked to someone meeting me for the 
first time. 

Another man approached, this one was Chris Andrews 2. He was also 
level six. The two men were clearly brothers. He was taller and less stocky. 
Chris wore a metal skullcap but didn’t appear to have any weapons. 

“Yes we are we,” Donut said. “I mean, really. I am right here. Rude.” 

Chris and Brandon just looked at each other. Then Brandon burst out 
laughing. 

“I’m sorry man,” he said to me. “I didn’t realize. I saw your name, and I 
thought...” 

“Yeah,” I said. “You thought I was a nut. She talks. She also probably 
has higher stats than anybody else here.” 

Brandon went to a knee and patted Donut on the head. She looked 
simultaneously outraged and thrilled that he had touched her. “Well it’s nice 
to meet you, Princess Donut. I’m sorry if I offended you, pretty girl. I’ve 
never met a talking cat before.” 


“Tt’s quite all right,” Donut said, mollified. “Apology accepted.” 

We walked back toward the group. Despite what I had seen earlier with 
the goat corpses, it appeared there were only four people here in fighting 
shape. Both Brandon and Chris were level six. A round Hispanic woman— 
Yolanda Martinez 13—was around fifty years old and only stood about 
four foot 11. She was level five and carried a bow and had a quiver hanging 
over her shoulder. The quiver was so big on her, it almost dragged on the 
floor. She was in medical scrubs, and she wore a plastic ID on her breast. It 
read “Meadow Lark. Yolanda. CNA.” 

The fourth was another woman carrying a longsword. She, too, wore 
scrubs, though she also wore a magical cloak. Her name was Imani C. I 
guessed the woman weighed about 90 pounds, if that. She looked to be 
about 20 years old. Her terrified, hollowed-out eyes suggested she had seen 
some shit. 

All four of them had a single bronze star after their names. 

Imani also had skulls. 

A lot of skulls. 

On the interface, it was one big skull followed by two more regular 
ones. When I hovered over it, it said Crawler Killer X 12. 

She was also level 10, the highest we’d seen so far. 

Donut: CARL IT IS ANOTHER VILE MURDERER. 

Carl: I don’t think so, not this time. Also, I know you don’t have to 
type in all caps. I’ve seen you do it before. It makes you sound like you 
are yelling. 

Donut: I AM YELLING CARL. 

“We are the night staff at an eldercare facility in Wenatchee,” Brandon 
was Saying after I introduced myself to the others. Yolanda greeted me with 
enthusiasm. Imani said nothing. “We had a fire alarm and were forced to go 
outside because someone,” he eyed the woman with the shopping cart, 
“started a barrel fire outside our building and caught it on fire.” 

I examined the woman with the shopping cart. She was obviously 
homeless. We’re all homeless now. She stood there, looking off into space, 
gnawing on a blackened fingernail. 

Crawler #7,450 “Agatha.” 

Level 2. 

Race: Human. 

Class: Not yet assigned. 


“Anyway,” Brandon said. “We had to evacuate the building, all 250 
residents out into the freezing cold right when it happened.” 

I looked at the group, counting for the first time. There were a total of 
38 people here, including the four workers and Agatha. 

“There were 250 of you?” I asked, looking the group over. 

“Yeah,” Brandon said, more quietly. “Not everyone came down here. 
And not everyone who did is still with us.” 

He went on to explain what happened next. 

The fire started and quickly engulfed the outside of their building. 
Luckily, the fire had been on the side of the cafeteria, in an alley area where 
Agatha had been camped out. Nobody had been hurt by the blaze itself, but 
evacuations at elder facilities were always an especially dangerous affair. It 
was no simple task to get everyone out. 

The local police and fire department had arrived by the dozens. 
Firefighters assisted with the fire and with handing out blankets to the 
freezing residents and workers of the facility. They’d been in the process of 
getting the keys to a nearby elementary school to get everyone out of the 
cold. 

“But how did you get them down the stairs?” I asked. 

Brandon looked, again, at Agatha. “The entrance appeared right in the 
street, literally in the middle of the group. A bunch of folks fell in. There 
were stairs just like you said. But then Agatha over there pushed her cart 
right onto the stairs like she was... well I don’t know what the hell she was 
doing. But the stairs transformed into a ramp. It wanted her to come on 
down. A long, easy ramp. Agatha was the first to voluntarily go down there, 
cackling like she always does. Hollerin’ she’d saved all our lives. The folks 
who fell in when it opened, we never saw them again.” He shuddered. 
“They weren’t there when we got to the bottom.” 

“Did you go because of the cold?” I asked. 

He eyed my naked legs. “We didn’t mean to go all the way in, but it was 
warm in there, you know what I mean? So I pushed a few residents right 
into the entrance where the ramp wasn’t so steep, so that hot air was 
blasting up on them. I figured we could wait there until we knew what we 
were going to do. Only a few of the cops and paramedics remained after the 
collapse. They just took off running in all sorts of directions, like they had 
some place better to go. But some stayed, and they helped me bring the 
residents into the warmth. It let me do it. We moved several over, but then, 


after we’d moved about half the residents into the warmth, it just stopped 
letting me leave. My foot was trapped. My brother wasn’t even in the hole, 
but when he grabbed my hand, it wouldn’t let him move, either. And it 
started hurting after a minute. It only stopped when we moved down the 
ramp. When we got that twenty minute warning, when it said anyone 
lurking in the stairwell wouldn’t get out? We just went in. We didn’t have a 
choice.” 

“What about the cops and paramedics?” 

“We had about twenty guys with us, including a couple firemen and 
cops who decided to go in. Most didn’t. We all helped getting the residents 
inside the hall.” He pointed over his shoulder, indicating the artery that led 
to this quarter of the circle. “It was right there, just around that corner 
where we came in. Most of these folks haven’t moved hardly at all since we 
got here. We’ve been bringing them food from a safe room that’s about a 
mile away.” 

“Where are the cops and firefighters now?” I asked. 

He nodded at the circle. “Most went in there when we first found this 
place. The gates closed, then about five minutes later, the gates opened up 
again, and those guys were just gone. Our tutorial guide lady, Mistress 
Tiatha, she said all borough and city bosses will have stairwells for the first 
four or five levels. But there will be a bunch of other stairs in random 
places, too. A couple of us went out searching for them, hoping we could 
find a stairwell that’s easier to get to than this one. This was just a while 
back.” Brandon cast a nervous glance at the elderly patients. He leaned in 
and whispered, “They’re all dead. You can see when they die on the party 
menu. They all got picked off by something that’d been hunting them one 
by one. Even Doctor Gracie, and she was a damn MMA fighter. Us four? 
We’re the last of the non-residents left. Us and Agatha.” 

I turned to regard the large group of elderly patients. Looking upon 
them gave me a terrible, sinking feeling. They shouldn't be here. This 
wasn’t going to end well. 

Agatha had pulled a blue IKEA bag from her shopping cart. She 
produced a can of metallic silver spray paint from the bag. She hobbled 
over to the wall and sprayed a giant circle, then turned it into a happy face. 
Then she leaned in and sniffed the wall, muttering something to herself the 
whole time. 

“Don’t waste the spray paint, Agatha,” Brandon called. 


“Tt’s mine!” Agatha said, clutching the IKEA bag to herself. “You stole 
it from me.” 

“And you stole it from Stan’s,” Brandon said. “Just... Just don’t waste 
it, okay?” 

“Have you thought about moving all these folks to the safe room?” I 
asked. “It has to be more comfortable than the hallway.” 

“Tt’s already full,” Brandon said. “It’s a damn Waffle House from 
Alabama. Can you believe that? The place has a capacity of 30 people, and 
my brother Chris has been helping the more coherent, more mobile ones get 
over there. There’s this gnome thing in there that’s cooking them food and 
singing. They all love it.” He smiled sadly. “Those folks at the Waffle 
House. They made a vote, and they decided they’re not coming out. They’re 
treating it like a giant party.” 

“He doesn't talk much, does he?” I asked, indicating Brandon's brother, 
Chris. 

Brandon shook his head while Chis looked at me impassively. 

“He's not exactly mute,” Brandon said. “But he don't say too much. 
Growing up, our mom thought he was slow. They put him in a special 
school because he never spoke. But he's not dumb. He does talk. Think of 
him as Silent Bob. If he says something, you better listen.” 

Brandon nodded sagely. 

I hesitated. “And her?” I asked, indicating Imani. I watched as she 
helped a woman to a nearby door. A bathroom. She made the woman open 
the door herself. The floor outside the bathroom was stained red. I 
shuddered, remembering the exploding “bug” from the announcements. 
After the woman was safely delivered to the bathroom, Imani turned and 
helped a man in a wheelchair take a sip of water. Yolanda also moved 
amongst the others, talking softly. 

Brandon shook his head. “We got attacked once, right after we found 
that tutorial place. I... I don’t really want to talk about it, man. But Imani, 
she had that sword, and several of the residents, we were taking them in 
groups to Mistress Tiatha. They can’t move so quick. It was for the better. 
Letting those things burn them, that’d been much worse.” 

I nodded. I had questions, but I knew some things were best left 
unasked. It wasn’t lost on me that her high level was probably a direct result 
of her having to kill 12 of her former patients. And she’d probably gained a 
loot box or two. 


“These people still can’t walk? So the dungeon’s fast healing and all 
those healing spells and such don’t work?” 

“Oh, it’s amazing,” Brandon said. “But it’s a curse, too. All of these 
folks have been cured of hundreds of their little ailments. Not a one of them 
brought any of their medications with them down here, and it’s been okay. 
But at the same time, they ain’t getting any younger. Or stronger. And those 
who’ve lost memories or cognitive function, that hasn’t been fixed. It’s like 
it cured anything that’s going to kill them, but it didn’t make them better 
than they were, either.” 

I sighed, turning my attention to the large, rounded entrance to the 
maze. There was a short bridge, an entrance about three times the size of the 
smaller portcullis entrances that peppered the way, with a raised, giant gate 
big enough to allow a pair of goblin dozers through side-by-side. It led to 
another, round courtyard with three exits. The walls shook as the monster 
sped by, but it didn’t appear to enter this courtyard area. 

“So, what’s the plan?” I asked. 

“The original plan was to gather as many people as we could and then 
storm the maze. We think it's shaped like a spiral. But nobody was coming, 
so they went looking for other exits. And that didn’t work out so well. Now 
it’s just us, and we can’t kill that thing. Nobody even knows what it is.” 

“And then what?” I asked. “Even if we had free passage to the stairs...” 
I let it hang. 

“I know, I know,” Brandon said. “But I just can’t leave them. I was 
hoping, maybe if we could get them all down to the second level, then we 
could do the same thing for the third level. And then they’d all get to choose 
a class and maybe they wouldn’t be, you know...” 

“Useless?” Donut asked. 

I nodded. I felt for the guy and the other three. Would I have stayed, 
continued with my duty? Even when it was so damn hopeless? What a 
nightmare. I thought I’d had it bad, but these guys... The world was over. 
There was no hope for these poor people they’d been in charge of 
protecting. This harsh environment wasn’t meant for the weak, the frail. 

Yet to these four—Brandon, Chris, Yolanda, and Imani—the idea of 
giving up their duty wasn’t even a question. 

I spent some time recounting our story, including our clash in the last 
safe room. I told them of our two encounters with neighborhood bosses. 


“I can do something similar with this boss,” I said. “I think I can build a 
bomb that’ll go off on its own when the monster hits it, that way we don’t 
have to get locked in there to fight.” 

“Tt won’t work,” Yolanda said, coming up to stand with us. “You know 
those little doors, the ones that let you see the monster? They’re protected 
somehow. I thought to try to hit it with my bow, but the arrow bounces right 
off. I poked at it with my finger, and it feels like thick clay. It even glows 
blue if you touch it. They look like entrances, but they ain’t. I think maybe 
you can go in that way if you push yourself really hard, but I wouldn’t try it. 
And I wouldn’t be pushing no bomb through that. The only way in is 
through this big gate here. And the monster doesn’t go into that first room. 
So you can’t hurt it without first getting locked in.” 

“But we don’t know for sure,” Brandon added. “Once the gate closed, 
we couldn’t see in there at all. We couldn’t hear. We couldn’t talk using the 
party chat, not with the ones in there. It was like they’d been cut from the 
party.” 

I sighed. We had two choices. We could leave these guys and hope to 
find another set of stairs somewhere. Or we could fight the borough boss 
here. 

Neither choice was appealing. Whatever that thing was, it would be 
almost impossible to kill. I remembered that scene from the latest recap 
episode. It had been forty against one borough boss, and it had slaughtered 
them. We didn’t even know what the hell the monster was. 

I looked at the clock. We had 40 hours. Geez. Had it really been that 
long since we’d run away from Frank and Maggie? There would be another 
show in 10 hours. We’d done nothing today except travel a hundred miles 
or so from where we started. 

And speaking of Frank and Maggie. I had a terrible realization. “Your 
people, the ones who died while looking for more stairs. Which direction 
did they go?” 

“Mostly west, toward Seattle. They would’ve been north of where you 
were. I remember where we killed the chilly goats. That was the farthest out 
my brother and I had gone. We separated from the group right around there 
and headed back here.” 

“And how long ago did the last one disappear?” 

“Tt was earlier today. Barely five or six hours ago.” 


I looked down at Donut, thinking. It could’ve been them, Frank and 
Maggie. But that would mean they’d gotten to this area before us. That 
didn’t make sense. We were pretty far from where we’d last encountered 
them. Could there be another group of crawlers killing people off? Or was it 
a monster? Without finding their bodies, we’d never know. 

Behind me, one of the elderly women started sobbing. Another, a man 
with a back so curved his chin rested against his own chest, scooted forward 
on his walker and patted her on the back. The hunch-backed man was 
wearing a veteran’s cap. He had been US Army Special Forces once upon a 
time. 

If I’m gonna die, I might as well do it in the pursuit of a worthy cause. 

“Are there any other rest areas around here?” I asked. “Ones that aren’t 
full?” 

“Yeah, we know of two. One of them doesn’t have anything in it except 
a vending machine that hands out wrapped candies. They taste like piss but 
give you a +1 boost to your dexterity for ten minutes. The machine only 
works for you once a day. The next place is further down. It’s a Taco Bell 
from Peru and has full facilities, including coffee.” He leaned in. “And beer. 
Good beer.” 

“What about the mobs near there?” I asked. “Also, how about training 
guilds?” 

“We’ve cleared out the next two quadrants. Some of the other guys 
killed the first neighborhood boss. They said it was like a giant, demon man 
in a suit made of skin. We got the second boss. All of us here were in on 
that fight. That one was a floating crystal thing, but it shattered when I hit it 
with my hammer a few times. The next area after that, next to the Taco Bell, 
is still crawling with monsters. They’re lizard creatures. They jump and bite 
and poison you. I got hit once, and I thought I was going to die. The poison 
ran out on its own just before it killed me, and that was only because I kept 
taking health potions. We didn’t want to mess around in that neighborhood 
after that. But there are a couple training guilds in the area.” 

“Okay, good,” I said. “This is what’s going to happen. Donut and I are 
going to spend the rest of today grinding. If you can manage to pry a pair of 
those rattle cans from Agatha over there, I’ll take them with us. I’m going 
to try to level up my skills as much as possible. You guys should do the 
same. Be wary of any other crawlers. Especially ones with the skulls by 
their names. We’re going to watch episode three, get some sleep, and then 


we’re going to come back here. And then all of us—Me, Donut, and you 
four—are going to go into there, and we’re going to fuck that boss up. 
We’re going to get your people down those stairs. Sound like a plan?” 

“And how are we going to do that?” a new voice asked. It was Imani, 
speaking for the first time. 

I grinned. “Don’t worry. I have an idea.” 


OceanofPDE:com 


“SO, WHAT’S THIS GRAND IDEA OF YOURS?” DONUT ASKED AS WE WALKED 
away. With her new skirt-like crupper combined with the butterfly talisman 
around her collar, she jingled when we walked. “How are we going to kill 
that thing?” 

“T have no fucking clue,” I said. “But we need them to train. It’s our 
only choice. It took us a full day to find this set of stairs, and we are almost 
out of time. It’s better to face the enemy you know than the one you don’t.” 

“We don’t know this enemy,” Donut said. “Wait, what are you doing?” 

Pd come to the first of the spray-painted signs pointing toward the 
encampment. I took the can of red paint they’d given me, and I sprayed 
completely over it, covering it up. 

“Did you see that Imani’s level?” I asked, standing to see if I could still 
read it. “She was level 10. And that was partially because of she’d been 
forced to kill all those people.” 

“So? Are you saying if someone else comes, they might kill all the old 
people? Just to get experience? Oh, Carl darling. Nobody is quite that evil,” 
Donut paused. “Are they?” 

“T don’t know,” I said. “And I don’t want to find out, either.” 

“But what if a big group of good guys comes through? And they miss it 
because you covered it up?” 

“Look where we are, Donut. We were lucky to find these people. There 
aren’t any big groups of good guys, not in these parts. It’s only sharks and 
minnows. Now come on. Let’s find that Taco Bell.” 

“So which one are we?” Donut asked as we trekked off. 


I didn’t answer. I couldn’t. 

Brandon said they’d put dozens of signs up all over the place. As we 
headed north, I either defaced or changed all the ones I could find. There 
was no way I’d get to them all, but it made me feel better. 

I was busy changing a sign from saying “2 blocks south” to “12 blocks 
south” when Donut lifted her head, sniffing. “Two more rats around the 
corner.” 

A moment later, their dots appeared. 

“Your sense of smell is getting better,” I said. 

“No, I think the rats are getting stinkier,” she said. 

We'd killed at least 30 rats between here and the encampment. These 
rats were bigger and fatter than the ones we’d fought earlier. They were all 
level three. Before we’d left, I’d quietly asked Brandon if they’d looted the 
corpses of the folks who’d been killed right when they’d entered the 
dungeon. He’d been horrified at first until I explained that I needed pants 
and shoes. He’d given me directions. They’d looted the extra wheelchairs, 
walkers, and canes, but they hadn’t touched their clothes. It would’ve 
required them to physically remove them. The thought made me ill. It also 
gave me a new burst of hatred for Frank Q and Maggie My, who had 
stripped the body of Rebecca W. They’d probably removed the clothes of 
the other ones they’d killed, too. 

When we got to where the elderly folks had died, all that was left was 
piles of bones and shredded clothes, nothing usable. I picked up the gnawed 
remains of a slipper, tossing it down with disgust. The rats had devoured 
everything else, tearing through the corpses like a hurricane. And now the 
rats in the area were bigger. 

We turned the comer and entered a new quadrant. A pair of humanoid 
creatures with loincloths and crude clubs saw us and hopped in our 
direction, hissing. These were three-foot-tall lizard monsters, like Brandon 
had stated, the tallest of them almost as high as my hip. They looked like 
upright Komodo dragons from the waist up. Small but muscular. Their legs 
were long and bent, kangaroo-like and scaly. 

Troglodyte Pygmy — Level 2 

Oh, these fuckers. With an intelligence just shy of an oft-dropped 
toddler, the standard troglodyte pygmy warrior would be harmless if it 
wasn’t so damn fast. Or venomous. 


Brandon had warned me about their special attack, so I was ready. 
Donut hit the first with a magic missile while the second leaped right at me, 
hissing and baring his giant fangs. 

I hit it with a right hook, my chain-covered fist smashing its head, 
changing the creature’s trajectory so it splattered against the wall of the 
tunnel. It exploded like a damn tomato. Donut’s target had practically 
vaporized under her single missile strike. Her Magic Missile spell had risen 
to level five, and she now had the option to choose how many mana points 
to put into each casting, from three to six. Her intelligence was currently 24, 
meaning she could fire eight missiles if she kept the power setting at three. 

I poked at the burnt-out husk of troglodyte with my bare toe. It’d only 
been a few days, but I barely felt the ground now when I walked. Random 
rocks still hurt, but not so much as they would’ve before. “That didn’t look 
like a three-mana missile.” 

“That was a six,” Donut said, sniffing at her handywork. “They really 
need to make this less disgusting.” 

“Tf it’s a level two monster, a three will probably one-shot it,” I said. 
Neither dropped any loot, but I took their clubs. 

“Tf it’s about to bite my face off, it’s getting a six,” said Donut. 

We spent the next hour hunting down and killing all the troglodytes we 
could. The level threes were called Troglodyte Bashers and the level fours 
were Troglodyte Virtuosos. The Bashers were twice as big, making them 
almost human-sized. They didn’t have any other special abilities, and they 
had more regular legs. The virtuosos had a tongue attack that surprised me 
at first. They were the same size as the level twos, but they could shoot their 
tongues almost fifteen feet. The thin, wet tongues stung like a whip, 
inflicting poison, which was immediately canceled thanks to my nightgaunt 
cloak. 

Donut and I were starting to become adept at fighting as a team. She’d 
wait for an opening to fire her missiles, and I’d move in to finish them off 
with a kick or a punch. I could tell just by her stance when—and where— 
she was going to move. She jumped on my shoulder with ease, using my 
height to fire on her targets from above. She’d hide behind me, easily 
slipping between my jacket and cloak, hanging on my back with her claws 
to avoid a poison attack. Well, any attack really. We didn’t level up yet to 
nine, but we were well on our way. It seemed after level eight, the amount 
of experience it took to hit the next level was absurdly high. We were 


plateauing. Even though I couldn’t distribute my stat points, my fighting 
skills were steadily climbing, giving my attacks more and more damage. 
The difficulty would probably start all over again when we went down a 
floor. 

If we went down a floor. 

After killing a Troglodyte Basher, all that was left from one of Donut’s 
missile strikes was the lizard’s head, rolling about like a lumpy soccer ball. 
She jumped down and idly batted at it while I caught my breath. With a 
single swipe, the skull flew across the hallway and shattered into the wall, 
leaving a crack in the stones. 

“You need to practice with your claws,” I said looking at the damage. 
“My strength is nine, and yours is 18. You are literally twice as strong as I 
am, and I’m pretty damn strong now. You could probably swipe through 
steel if you just tried.” 

“Fighting with one’s claws is just so inelegant,” she said. “It’s not 
ladylike.” 

“And shooting lasers out of your eyes is?” 

“Oh my, yes. With my Magic Missile I don’t get blood on me like a 
common house cat. I don’t end up matted and filthy. I can’t even imagine it. 
Pd end up looking like Ferdinand.” 

“Who the hell is Ferdinand?” 

“Nobody you’d know.” 

I sighed. “Just think about it, okay?” 

She didn’t answer. 

We found the troglodyte boss room after a couple hours of grinding 
through the hallways. This one was a little differently shaped than the 
others. The room was a long rectangle with what appeared to be a smaller 
room at the entrance, meaning I wouldn’t be able to pull off my bomb- 
from-afar method of boss killing. The highest mob in this area was a level 
four, meaning—hopefully—the boss wouldn’t be too strong. Probably a 
level seven or eight. 

It was dangerous, but if we couldn’t handle a floor one neighborhood 
boss by now, we’d have no chance against whatever was guarding those 
stairs. We decided to go for it. 

We hesitantly approached the boss room. The front door to this one was 
one of those glass, automatic sliding doors, though I couldn’t see inside. 


The sign on the door was in English. It said, “Open 24 Hours” and “Fitness, 
Weights, Gains.” 

I grabbed a cigarette and lit it. It was my second to last one. I took a 
deep drag. 

We stepped inside. 


OceanofPDF.com 


LIKE THE DOOR INDICATED, THIS WAS A HIGH-CEILINGED GYM. WHERE WE 
entered was a small receptionist’s desk with a turnstile. Signs hung on the 
wall filled with slogans like “Today is the day you gain” and “Excuses 
don’t lose calories” and “Release the beast.” The place smelled of sweat and 
oil and testosterone. From around the corner I could see racks of fitness 
equipment. While not tiny, the place was much smaller than the last boss 
room. I didn’t dare throw a dynamite stick in here. 

A loud, deep grunting filled the gym, followed by the familiar ching of 
metal weights crashing together. 

A level two troglodyte hissed at us from the counter, and Donut jumped 
to my shoulder and slammed him with a missile. He fell over, dead. 

“Hey, was that a three power? He didn’t explode.” 

“Yes, it was. I’m conserving my mana.” 

The automatic door slammed shut behind us, and the well-lit room 
turned red. 

The familiar music started to play as I pushed my way through the 
turnstile. The boss battle message blared, almost identical to last time. Our 
mugshots floated into the air, and we were announced as we rounded the 
corner. Six of the level-three Troglodyte Bashers filled the room, working 
the machines. A trio of the Virtuosos stood in the opposite corner. 

And then there was the boss. 

The monstrosity stood across the room, admiring himself in the mirror 
as he curled a pair of absurdly large dumbbells. The creature stopped when 
we entered the room. He dropped the weights. The pair embedded 


themselves halfway into the floor with a reverberating crash. Wood 
splintered up all around where they fell. The beast slowly turned in our 
direction, and the world paused the moment his eyes met mine. 

Ah, fuck, I thought as the face of the creature zoomed big on my 
interface. 

Versus... 

The Juicer! 

Level 9 Neighborhood Boss! 

With a body enhanced by the finest anabolic steroids the dark web 
has to offer, the Juicer spends his days pushing iron, snapping necks, 
and crying that his pimple-infested sac is a third the size it once was. 
Having reached a plateau, rage now fills his enlarged heart. All he ever 
wanted was to gain, but right now he’ll settle on bringing out... 

The music hit a crescendo with a dun, dun, dun! 

...the paaaaain! 

“The cheese factor on some of these descriptions is just horrifying,” 
Donut muttered. “It’s worse than that Knight Rider show you love so 
much.” 

Once again, this creature was a person from our world, though without 
the description it wouldn’t be quite as obvious. It was like they’d taken a 
Troglodyte Basher and merged it with a contestant from a bodybuilding 
contest. And then inflated his muscles well past what a normal body could 
sustain. He was a couple of inches taller than me. He still had the lizard 
head, and a scaled body and tail. He wore little black shorts and nothing 
else, revealing a preposterously muscled physique, covered in tributaries of 
bulging veins as thick as my finger. The thing was so shredded, he was like 
a kid in a snowsuit who couldn’t put his arms down. His trap muscles made 
him look as if he had tumors sprouting from the edge of his shoulder to 
halfway up his scaled head. His thighs were the size of beer kegs, forcing 
him into a ridiculous, wide stance. He waddled when he moved. 

“Bro,” the monstrosity croaked. “I need a spot, bro.” He pulled a round, 
metallic free weight from a rack. The disc was the size of a manhole cover. 
With a twist of his waist, he threw it right at my head. The giant weight 
burst into flames as it rocketed toward me. 

“Holy fuck!” I cried as I jumped out of the way. Donut leaped in the 
other direction. The weight crashed into a treadmill and exploded, 
shattering the mirror behind it. 


I activated my scroll of Confusing Fog as the other troglodytes 
descended on me. The effect was immediate. A thick, wet fog filled the 
room, temporarily blinding me before it faded before my eyes. Water 
beaded over everything, making the ground slick. I could still see the 
outline of the cloud in the room, but the opacity of the effect was halved. I 
knew the troglodytes couldn’t see a thing. The scroll didn’t say how long 
the effect lasted, but I suspected it wasn’t long. We had to act fast. 

The troglodytes, blinded, started running into each other and the 
scattered gym equipment. The Juicer picked up another weight and chucked 
it in a random direction. “Bro,” he groaned. “Bro, I can’t see.” 

I rushed toward the group of bashers as yet another weight crashed 
against the squat rack, knocking it on its side with a mighty clang. We’d 
decided ahead of time that I’d take out the support creatures first if I could 
while Donut dealt full-strength headshots to the boss. I leaped over a glute 
machine, punching down into the wide-eyed, confused face of a Basher. 
These guys took at least four or five punches to stay down. My fist burned 
as I tore through them. 

I swept the leg out of the final Basher, and he tumbled, hitting his head 
on the padded chair of a chest press. As I caved in the side of his head with 
my fist, the fog cleared, just as quickly as it had come. 

Damnit. I read my second scroll as I scrambled away from a flaming 
disk. It smashed into the same chest press, sending flaming hunks of metal 
in every direction like shrapnel. I cried out as my exposed hip exploded in 
pain. Blood geysered down my leg. I cast my Heal spell just as the fog re- 
filled the chamber. The Confusing Fog had lasted barely fifteen or twenty 
seconds, and I only had one scroll left. 

Donut bounced back and forth around the room, launching at the Juicer, 
who was content to stay where he was and hurl metal at us. The powerful 
magic missiles were having an obvious effect on the boss monster, but his 
health bar was still in the green by the time Donut had to drink a mana 
potion. The Juicer grunted every time the missiles hit his head, followed by 
a bellow of rage. He’d pick up another weight and toss it in Donut’s general 
direction. She was smart enough to move after each blast. The weights flew 
through the mist like comets. 

In addition to avoiding the attacks by the boss, Donut had to dodge the 
random tongue lashes from the Virtuosos. She tried to keep a machine 
between herself and the poison-dealing monsters. Only I had the anti-poison 


resistance, and if she got hit, we’d have a hard time keeping her alive until 
she’d be allowed to drink an antidote potion. 

Both my leg and my hand healed as I launched myself toward the other 
side of the room at the three Virtuosos. One blindly shot his tongue, and it 
smashed into a chin up bar machine next to me. I grasped the tongue with 
my left hand before it could recede, and the lizard made a strangled cry as it 
tried to retract but found he couldn’t. 

He retracted anyway, getting dragged across the room toward me. His 
large mouth clamped down on my fist. I cried out in pain. I banged the head 
against the side of a machine, but the body remained firmly attached. Its 
dozens of sharp teeth were embedded in the bones of my arm. The Virtuoso 
wasn’t dead, but he was literally choking on my fist. He seemed just as 
desperate to get free of me as I was. His body weighed barely anything, and 
it flayed desperately as it dangled off my arm. 

I reached the other two lizards just as the fog began to clear again. 

“T’m almost out,” Donut cried behind me. 

I snap kicked one in the stomach, and he doubled over. I smashed down 
with my foot, breaking his neck as I whirled on the third, hitting him with a 
right cross. I took my left fist, which was still inside the mouth of the first 
troglodyte, and I pummeled the third to death. 

The lizard affixed to me also died during the beating, and his body 
broke off at the neck with a disgusting snap. The teeth remained painfully 
attached to my left wrist, like I was wearing a bizarre boxing glove made of 
troglodyte head. Bits of gore and bone still hung from the neck hole. I 
whirled to face the boss. 

The Juicer’s health was about 2/3s gone. The entire top half of his body 
was blackened and scorched. I could no longer see his beady eyes glaring at 
me. 

“Bro,” he said. “Not cool. That was my bro.” He picked up another 
weight and flung it at me. I dove out of the way. It hit the wall, shattering. 
Shrapnel cut into me. Burning little pieces of metal peppered the side of my 
head. I fell backward over another machine, my ankle getting caught in the 
wire. I read my final scroll of Confusing Fog as I extracted myself. Another 
weight rocketed toward me, whirring over my head like a buzzsaw. It 
exploded behind me. 

More metal chunks cut into me. My health plummeted into the red. I 
mentally clicked a health potion from my hotlist as I peeled the skull off my 


wrist. It was like trying to free a boiled egg from its shell. I had to break the 
head from the jaw to free my hand. The skull clattered to the ground. After I 
drank the potion, I noted I had a 15-second cooldown before I could drink 
another. Donut’s cooldown was much longer, closer to two minutes. I didn’t 
have time to wonder why we were different. 

The fog filled the room, and I rushed at the boss. 

This is a terrible idea, I thought as I approached from behind. The 
monster was bent over, feeling blindly for another weight from the rack. 
He’d pulled all the weights off of one pole, but there were more right below 
it. Blinded, he couldn’t see what to grab. 

I grasped at a barbell that appeared to have about 250 pounds on each 
side. I grasped the stop and ripped half the weights free, which clattered to 
the ground near my feet. I held onto the barbell before it could tumble 
forward off the bench. I brandished the lopsided, makeshift weapon like a 
giant mace. Before, lifting 250 pounds plus the bar would be next to 
impossible. I normally benched 230 pounds—which was a respectable 
amount. With my strength now at nine, I could still feel the weight, but I 
lifted it easily. It was enough to be awkward and maybe too much to just 
regularly walk around with. But I knew I could easily swing it, and I did, as 
hard as I could, at the monster’s scaly head. 

Crash. My whole body shuddered, as if I’d swung at a solid wall. The 
boss staggered, falling on his side, dropping the weight he’d managed to 
pull free. The bar trembled, and the three weights fell off the far end. I 
smacked him one more time with the much-lighter bar then tossed it. I 
picked up one of the 100 pound weights at my feet, lifted it over my head in 
both my hands, and smashed down on the Juicer. I smashed, and I smashed. 
His health bar slowly descended as he cried out. 

“Stop, ow! No, bro! It hurts!” 

Just when I thought he was done, about to die, he twisted, his giant arm 
shot up, fast as a snake strike, and it grasped my wrist. It felt as if a steel 
shackle had wrapped around me. Oh fuck, I thought as I dropped the 
bloody, dripping weight—which bounced off the monstrosity’s stomach. He 
took his other hand and grasped my neck. 

“This is gonna hella burn,” he said, sitting up. The fog cleared, and his 
eyes focused on me. Despite being lizard-faced, a row of pustules circled 
his eyes, like zits that had grown up through the scales. He stank of sweat 


and burned flesh and Axe body spray. He started to squeeze, and I knew I 
was dead. My health bar plummeted. 

A magic missile slammed into the Juicer’s back. This was a weak one, 
and the monster barely acknowledged it with a grunt. 

“Hold on, Carl!” Donut cried. She emerged, flying through the air, 
claws out like a tiger pouncing on unsuspecting prey. She landed directly on 
the monster’s massive, bulbous shoulder, and she bit down hard on his vein- 
covered neck as her rear legs scrabbled at his back. Tendrils of green and 
red tissue went flying, as if she were a potato peeler gone haywire. She bit 
through one of the veins on his neck, vampire-like. Blood sprayed as if she 
had struck oil, soaking Donut, who gurgled in response. 

The giant hand at my neck went slack, and he slapped backward at 
Donut. He barely hit her, a glancing blow, but she rocketed off the 
creature’s back as if she’d been shot out of a cannon. She hit the far wall 
with a sickening crunch. 

“Donut!” I cried. I scrambled to my feet, wheezing for breath as the 
monster reached for his shredded back in obvious, agonizing pain. Blood 
sprayed from his neck as if she’d sheared off a water spigot. The blood just 
kept coming and coming, an impossible amount. 

The Juicer looked at me, eyes surprised, as if he hadn’t realized I was 
still alive. 

“I’m proud of you, bro,” he said. “You fought through the pain.” 

I hit him with a weak jab, and that’s all it took. The boss, whose health 
was already all but depleted, crumpled onto his back. I smashed his solid 
head with my foot. The system seemed to release whatever supernatural 
protection it gave to bones and flesh once the creature was dead, and his 
head caved in easily under my heel. It felt as if Pd stepped into a rotten 
watermelon. I didn’t pause to look at the carnage. I rushed across the room 
toward Donut. 

She lay in a bloodied heap on the floor, her leg bent in the wrong 
direction. Her health bar held nothing but the barest sliver of red. 

“Donut,” I cried, coming to my knees before her. “Goddamnit, Donut. 
Don’t you do this to me.” 

She gasped, not dead. The cat was entirely soaked in blood. But she was 
alive! I worriedly watched her health, terrified it might go lower. 
Sometimes when you were injured, it continued to decrease, just like on the 
surface. 


The Winner! graphic appeared on my screen, and the music stopped as 
I plunged into my inventory. I had to wait 10 frustrating seconds for the 
bullshit to clear before I could find what I was searching for. 

I had a scroll of Heal Critter. I read it, but it didn’t work on her. The 
scroll evaporated from my menu with an error message. No Valid Target 
Available. You just wasted a valuable scroll, dumbass. 

I couldn’t cast my heal spell on her, even if I did have enough Mana 
points, which I didn’t. Instead, I pulled a healing potion out of my inventory 
and uncorked it, ready to pour it into her mouth. 

I paused. She’d taken a mana potion just a few minutes earlier. She had 
a much longer potion countdown than I did. It probably had something to 
do with our constitution levels. I couldn’t examine her and tell where that 
countdown was, if it had run out or not. Would it hurt her if I tried to feed 
the potion to her early? I didn’t know. Any damage now would surely kill 
her. 

I quickly pulled a second healing potion and decided to test it on 
myself. Using the quick slots, it wouldn’t allow me to take a second potion, 
but surely the game couldn’t stop me from doing it manually. 

I downed one health potion, which brought my health back up. This was 
my first time actually physically drinking one. It tasted oddly like kiwi 
juice. The bottle disappeared with a poof. The fifteen second timer 
appeared, and I drank the second potion before the timer was done. 

You have been poisoned! 

Poison effect nullified. 

“Goddamnit,” I growled. I leaned over Donut, rubbing her soft fur. 
“Stay with me,” I said. 

Crack! The cat murmured in pain as her broken leg magically set itself. 
The sliver of health grew longer. She was healing. Getting better. 

I sighed, relief washing over me. She would heal on her own, but it was 
going to take a while. I’d wait another five minutes before I risked giving 
her the potion, which would ease her pain. 

“Carl, Carl is that you?” Donut asked after a minute, lifting her head 
pitifully. “Did we get it?” 

“We got it, Donut,” I said. “You got it. Don’t move. Just rest for a 
minute. You saved my life.” 

“I have been grievously injured in battle,” she said. “In saving you, I 
have made the ultimate sacrifice. I can feel my life fading away, Carl. I’m 


circling that last bend into the drain. This is the end. I used my claws like 
you said, and I have perished as a result. Miss Beatrice is going to be most 
displeased with you.” She coughed twice, two coughs that sounded 
suspiciously fake. “Tell her I fought bravely. Tell her I fought to the end. 
Find Ferdinand, tell him I loved him. I loved him ever since I first saw 
him.” 

Her health suddenly rocketed back up on its own. She’d taken one of 
her own health potions. I sighed, relieved. 

“The light, I think I see the light,” she croaked as I sat back and crossed 
my arms. Her eyes were clenched shut in mock pain. “This mortal coil is 
shed.” 

“Oh, get up,” I said, looking about the room. “Help me loot all this 
crap.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


AFTER SNAGGING THE NEIGHBORHOOD MAP, I SPENT SOME TIME GRABBING 
all the weight equipment I could carry. There was a lot of it. Free weights 
and dumbbells littered the room. I took them all. I grabbed multiple weight 
benches, which weighed nothing once I removed the bars. I broke down a 
door I hadn’t noticed earlier, and within were several mats and heavy 
medicine balls and various pieces of broken gym equipment along with 
some wrenches and other tools. All into the inventory, including the broken 
door. I then took everything off the office counter on the receptionist’s desk, 
including a laptop computer with a dead battery, and a cabinet filled with 
paper files. 

“Why are you even bothering?” Donut asked, having fully recovered. 
She frantically attempted to clean the blood off of herself. She was caked. 
She needed a shower and a brushing. The brushing part was going to be a 
problem. 

“If we can lift it, then we take it,” I said. “It only takes a second. The 
system is really good about categorizing it all. For some things, like that 
cabinet, it’s faster to pick the whole thing up and add everything into the 
inventory than it is to search it. For example,” I held out my hand, and a 
half-full bottle of Johnny Walker Black appeared. “This was hidden in that 
cabinet somewhere. The inventory system lets me keep it all together, and it 
lets me take things out of it, too. It’s great once you figure out how to work 
it. We don’t know what will be useful and when, so if it’s not bolted to the 
ground, it’s going into the bag.” 


Our next stop was a nearby training guild. Thanks to the boss being a 
higher level than expected, we both hit level nine. The wide expanse of 
experience needed to hit level ten spread before us. We also both had piles 
of loot boxes to open. 

“Three stars I see,” Mordecai said as we entered the training guild. He 
paused, his eyes going glossy for a moment. “You took out a level nine boss 
on your own? Most impressive!” 

“Yeah, it was a dumb idea,” I said. “Not knowing what we’re going to 
face really sucks. It’s hard to prepare for fights when you’re going in blind.” 
I sat heavily in the chair while Donut leaped for the fireplace and paused 
her manic cleaning to open her boxes. 

The rat creature nodded. “Let me examine the fight notes, and I can tell 
you what you can improve upon.” 

He grunted after a moment. “Okay, a couple things are clear. First off, 
brilliant move killing the goblin boss. Those guys are tough, but they aren’t 
as hard as that thing you just fought. That’s a new one to me.” He shook his 
head. “The Juicer.” 

“T think it was somebody from our world mixed up with one of those 
troglodytes,” I said. “He wasn’t as lucid as the Hoarder lady had been. 
They’d done something to him to make him say all that dumb shit. The 
bosses are caricatures, exaggerated stereotypes. It’s like they’re being 
controlled by an AI, but their consciousness is still rattling around in there, 
too. It’s really bizarre.” 

Mordecai nodded. “It’s what they do. Right now across the universe, 
every eye is focused on earth. Programs about your culture are reaching all 
the corners of the galaxy. The bosses are a part of that. It’s like this every 
season. Anyway, let’s look at your performance. When you hit it with that 
heavy weight, you did the same amount of damage as you would’ve with 
your fist. You need to understand how powerful your bare knuckle skill has 
become. It’s just as good right now as any unenchanted weapon you may 
find. I understand it’s not convenient sometimes, but I recommend sticking 
with the bare hand attack. Also, you wasted those Confusing Fog scrolls. 
Next time, have the party member with the highest intelligence read any 
scrolls if you can. Your intelligence of three made it so the fog only lasted 
fifteen seconds. Princess Donut’s intelligence level would’ve resulted in the 
fog lasting for 120 seconds per scroll.” 


“Damn,” I said. “Also, is that why she can’t take potions so often? 
Because her constitution is low?” 

“Yes,” Mordecai said. “That shred attack of hers is very powerful, but 
it’s useless until she gains more armor and more health. You’re lucky she 
hadn’t broken her neck. Picking a class or a race with a high base 
constitution will help, but not much. She’ll need to load up on items that 
enhance it, and those tend to be less common.” 

I looked at Donut, who was hissing with rage at the piles of torches that 
kept appearing in front of her. She’d received yet another spell book in the 
Bronze Boss Box, but she hadn’t read it yet. Most everything else appeared 
to be the same old crap with a couple exceptions. She got a bracelet from a 
Silver Adventurer box she’d received for finally dealing melee damage. The 
bracelet added +2 to her dexterity stat, bringing it to 12. She equipped it, 
and it wrapped snuggly around her front leg. 

She also received a dozen Heal scrolls from a Silver Survivor’s Box. 
That one was rewarded to her because she’d ended a boss battle with less 
than 5% of her health. The scrolls were good to have because there was no 
countdown between reading each one, and even better yet, we could use the 
scrolls on each other. 

She looked up at us. “I am already one of god’s most perfect creatures, 
so I won’t be changing race when the opportunity arises. I was born a cat, 
and I will die a cat. In fact, I’m going to have to insist that Carl choose a cat 
race as well.” 

“T am not going to change into a cat,” I said. “In fact, I’ve been thinking 
about it, and I decided I’m going to stick with human.” 

Donut did her approximation of a shrug and glowed as she read the 
magical tome. 

“Did you at least read the description first?” I asked. “What was it?” 

Mordecai nodded. “That’s a good one. Puddle Jumper.” 

“What does it do?” I asked. 

“She can teleport herself and up to three others to somewhere else that 
is within her line of sight. It will be especially useful if you come across 
rivers of lava or other impassable locations. Higher levels of the spell allow 
her to go further. If she manages to hit level 15 with the spell, it works 
almost as well as Teleport, one of the most powerful, most important spells 
to have in this dungeon. It costs 20 mana to cast and has a ten second delay 


and a five hour cooldown. It’s not good as a combat spell with that long of a 
delay, but it’s still great to have.” 

“What we really need is the ability to heal each other better,” I said. 

“Yes. Yes, you do,” Mordecai said. “There are a lot of methods out 
there. Those twelve Heal scrolls are good, and I suspect you’re about to get 
a few more. But for now, I would avoid letting Donut use her melee attacks 
unless it’s absolutely necessary. Her strength stat is phenomenal for this 
floor. But it’ll start to catch up to her later. She was at strength 18 during 
that fight. By way of comparison, the Juicer had a strength of 25. She’s in 
the wrong body to properly utilize that stat for hand-to-hand combat. Plus 
her health is simply too low. For now.” He nodded at the cat, who had 
resumed her hopeless self-grooming. “And you, little one. Your Dodge skill 
is level four. Keep working on it. Once it hits five, it'll be much easier for 
you.” 

“Look,” I said, “the real reason we’re here is because we’ve only found 
one set of stairs down, but there’s a problem.” 

Mordecai’s eyes widened as I told him about the others and the borough 
boss. 

“The solution is simple,” he said. “Skip the boss and keep searching for 
another set of stairs. They’re out there, and most aren’t guarded.” 

“We drove for a day straight before we found this one,” I said. “I’m 
really worried this is our only chance. Do you know what type of monster 
that is? Do you have any tips?” 

“If I did know what it was, I wouldn’t be allowed to tell you. I have a 
very specific, rigorous set of rules I must follow, especially when it comes 
to bosses. Come back here after the fight, and Pl happily sit down with you 
and analyze the battle and tell you all the boss’s stats. But if I tell you about 
the boss ahead of time, it’s considered cheating. You don’t want to be 
caught cheating. I can tell you that it’s madness to face a borough boss with 
only six crawlers.” 

I sighed. All of this talk about future levels and choosing a race and 
class was a waste of time. None of that was going to matter if we didn’t 
manage to make it past the first damn floor. 

“Is there anything you can tell me?” 

Mordecai thought for a moment. “Tell me, what does that Juicer boss 
have in common with that bad llama mob you fought earlier?” 

I shrugged. “They’re both drug addicts?” 


“No, not that. How did you kill the llama?” 

“T throat punched him, and it made his head melt off.” 

Mordecai nodded. “And the Juicer? What attack, do you suppose, took 
him down?” 

“It was a combination of several things, but probably when Donut bit 
his neck and tapped directly into his blood stream.” I laughed as Donut 
glowered at me. She still looked as if she’d tried to reenact that final scene 
from Carrie. 

“That’s exactly right,” Mordecai said. “Most of these creatures have a 
weakness. The throat for the llamas, the high-pressure vein for the boss. 
Sometimes it’s obvious, sometimes it’s not. The Hoarder, for example. I can 
now tell you her weakness was the bugs coming out of her mouth. If you’d 
killed one before it had fully emerged, the next cockroach in line wouldn’t 
be able to get out. It would’ve choked and killed her.” 

“T never really thought of it that way,” I said. 

“Look for a vulnerability, and once you find it, exploit it. You haven’t 
yet walked into a boss battle completely blind like you say. There have been 
clues every time. There will always be clues. Look for them.” 

There will always be clues. What did we know about this borough boss? 

I thought about that as I sat down and examined my new achievements 
and boxes. 

In addition to the boss box, it was mostly the standard stuff. My bare 
knuckle and other fighting skills all ticked up to six, including my Smush 
skill. My Iron Punch rose to five. I received random achievements for 
riding the chopper for more than five hours. Another for having killed more 
than a 100 wandering monsters in the maze. I’d received a Bronze 
Survivor’s Box for having less than 10% health when the boss died. I 
received five more of the Heal scrolls for that one, leaving us with 17 of 
them. Most of the other prizes were the standard bronze or silver 
adventurers boxes. Potions, bandages, biscuits. I did receive a random 
cowboy hat, which I tossed into my inventory. 

I also was awarded an interesting achievement: 

New achievement! Two Chicks at the Same Time. 

You killed two mobs at once using only their own bodies against 
each other. On a brutality scale of Bambi to Martyrs, that is a solid 
Seven. 

Reward: You’ve received a Gold Brawler Box! 


I also received another Gold Looter box for storing more than 10 tons 
worth of crap in my storage. 

The boss box contained a pile of ninja stars. 

Enchanted Shuriken of Bloodlust (x100) 

Small, low-damage throwing stars. These bad boys aren’t anything 
special upon first glance. They’re the same black stars you wannabe 
ninjas purchased at the knife shop and the swap meet when you were 
kids. The same throwing stars you’d drill into the drywall of your room 
until your mom caught you and took them away. And while these 
shuriken don’t have the ability to turn you into a ninja, nor do they 
have the capacity to make your mom stop drinking, they are enchanted 
with a Bloodlust enhancement. For every monster you damage with a 
shuriken from this set, the damage against that monster type rises by 
8%. 

I looked at Mordecai. “When it says the damage increases by 8%, does 
it mean 8% from the original amount, or 8% compounded? That’s a big deal 
after a while.” 

“Huh, I don’t know,” Mordecai said. “Hang on.” His eyes went glossy 
as he presumably entered some sort of tutorial-guide-only help menu. 

“Good news. It’s compounded,” he said after a minute. “So each hit will 
be 8% higher than the previous amount. The bad news is, the stars are very 
fragile.” 

That sounded pretty awesome at first, but I suspected it wasn’t that great 
of an enchantment. It’d take a long time to power them up. I’d have to do a 
ton of throwing to make them worthwhile. I only had 100 of them. I’d have 
to collect them back each time. And if they broke a lot, then I might only 
get one chance to really use them. 

The gold Looter Box contained yet another skill potion. It was once 
again a Determine Value skill tonic. I drank it, leveling the skill up to two. I 
couldn’t see a difference in the menu. I suspected I’d need three more 
before it became really useful. 

The brawler box contained the best item of the lot. After my shirt and 
cloak, it was easily the greatest loot I’d won so far in the dungeon. It was 
exactly the type of weapon I’d been hoping for. 

Enchanted War Gauntlet of the Exalted Grull. (Right-Handed) 

+3 Strength (In Fist Mode Only) 

+1 Dexterity 


+ 2 Skill Levels to Iron Punch. 

+ 1 Skill Level to Powerful Strike. 

2% chance to Stun enemy upon a successful hit. 

Item is a wrist bracer that transforms into a spiked war gauntlet 
made of orcish steel when the hand is shaped into a fist or wields a 
hilted weapon for more than two seconds at a time. This item on its own 
does not negate the bare knuckle skill bonus. 

Warning: if you use this weapon to strike adherents of the war god 
Grull, you have a 1.5% chance to transfigure your target into the deity 
himself. Trust me on this. You don’t want to do that. 

A bigger, redder, WARNING. Remove this item before you jerk off. 

“Hey, Mordecai,” I said as I removed the chain and slipped the 
charcoal-colored bracer over my wrist. “How can I tell if someone worships 
Grull?” 

He grunted. “Equine-class creatures worship him. So if it’s a horse or a 
centaur, or a tikbalang, then he might worship Grull. Creatures like that bad 
llama might also pray to him, but not until after the third floor. The biggest 
tell is that they smear blue makeup all over themselves and won’t stop 
talking about wenches and dying gloriously in battle.” Mordecai paused. He 
looked up nervously, as if not sure he should say this next part. “And, just 
so you know, Grull isn’t a real god. There are no real gods in this game.” 

“Does that really make a difference?” I asked. 

Mordecai was suddenly solemn, and I didn’t know why. He looked at 
me, intense. “You said you worry that some of these bosses and mobs are 
like you, here against their will.” He pointed downward, indicating the 
lower levels. “That’s not always going to be the case. Especially later on. 
Remember that. There are no gods here. Just those who pay for the 
privilege.” 

“Okay,” I said, trying to make sense of what he was desperately 
attempting to tell me. 

“What the goodness is a tikbalang?” Donut asked, pausing in her 
cleaning. “It sounds like some sort of disease a sailor would get.” 

“Do you know what a horse is?” Mordecai asked, looking up. He 
seemed relieved for the question. 

“Of course.” 

“They’re like that. But meaner.” 


I closed my fist. Two seconds ticked by, I felt a haptic buzz all up my 
arm, and with a whoosh, my hand turned into a spiked hunk of metal. I had 
to clench my fist really tight to make it work, which was good. The last 
thing I needed was this thing appearing when I didn’t want it to. I examined 
the malevolent-looking gauntlet. There was nothing ornate about it. It was 
black, angular with multiple, gleaming spikes. A tool, nothing more. It felt 
heavy on my hand, but not too heavy. No more breaking fingers when I 
punched something. I felt the extra strength ripple through me. I released 
my fist, and the gauntlet vanished in a puff of smoke that smelled of burned 
hair. 

“Awesome,” I said. 


OceanofPDE. com 


Time to Level Collapse: 6 hours 30 minutes. 


“ARE YOU READY?” I ASKED BRANDON AS WE POISED AT THE ENTRANCE TO 
the borough boss chamber. 

“No,” he said, smiling sadly. He clutched onto his massive war hammer 
for a moment. It disappeared into his inventory. The giant weapon could 
only get in the way during the first part of the plan. Donut perched on my 
shoulder while the others crowded behind us. 

We didn’t have time left for any more training, any more preparation. It 
was now Or never. 

The third episode of Dungeon Crawler World hadn’t offered any 
additional insight. Donut and I had sat in the Taco Bell watching it on the 
screen while the proprietor, another Bopca Protector named Sebastian, sat 
next to us and brushed Donut’s hair with one of his own brushes, which 
he’d gifted to her after her third shower. Her insane charisma of 41 caused 
the level-21 NPC to practically fall in love with her the moment we entered 
the safe zone. I sipped on a delicious Peruvian beer and picked at my T- 
bone steak as we watched crawlers by the dozens get slaughtered while the 
host breathlessly described the action. 

The second half of the program had zeroed in on five different groups of 
adventurers, including that woman with the magical crossbow and Lucia 
Mar with her two rottweilers. The other three groups were larger, including 


one that comprised of 150 African soldiers armed with AK-47s. All of these 
groups, if the show was to be believed, were just moonwalking their way 
through the dungeon. All of them had found stairwells down already and 
were camping near them, waiting for the clock to tick to exactly six hours 
before they descended. 

Much to Donut’s dismay, we were once again snubbed by the program. 
I didn’t care. I was much more occupied with that number. I couldn’t get it 
out of my head. 

2,952,085. 

From thirteen million to this in just under four days. A cataclysm. Every 
single one of those numbers was a person, someone who had lived, 
breathed, hoped, laughed. And they were just gone. The announcement 
hadn’t offered any additional insight, either. Another, more stern warning 
about using the hallways as a bathroom. A litany of changes regarding 
spells and power levels of mobs, none of which affected us. After sleeping 
for a few hours, we headed back to the encampment, and I related my 
dubious, off-the-cuff plan to the group of crawlers who had all appeared 
shocked that we’d actually returned. 

“Here we go,” I said now, stepping across the drawbridge and through 
the giant archway. 

Brandon, Chris, Yolanda, and Imani followed. We hesitantly entered the 
round courtyard to the spiral maze. 

“No, Agatha, don’t!” I heard a voice behind me. It was Yolanda, yelling 
at the woman with the shopping cart, who’d wheeled up behind us. 

The woman didn’t listen to Yolanda and pushed her way into the 
entrance hall, cackling with delight. “You’re not doing this without ol’ 
Agatha.” 

“We don’t have room for you, Agatha!” Yolanda yelled. “Get back!” 

“Crazy bat,” Brandon said. “You’re gonna get us all killed.” 

“I think that roly-poly is the one that’s gonna get us all killed,” Agatha 
said. 

“Shut up. Everybody shut up,” Imani said, raising her hand. “Listen for 
the monster.” 

“Don’t worry,” I said. “It’s going to announce itself at any moment.” 

The gate behind us slammed shut as music rose. Metal bars magically 
appeared, locking us in. 


This was different music than usual. Faster, more frenetic. An EDM 
beat mixed by a DJ hopped up on Adderall. A deep bass reverberated the 
ground. 

The lights flickered, then went dark. A moment later, they came back 
on, filling the area with the purple hue of a blacklight. Neon lights appeared 
on the ceiling. Lasers ripped across the hallways, flashing in beat with the 
music. We’d stepped into a rave. The sound of rock scraping filled the 
room, louder than the song. I turned in a circle, trying to find the source. 

It was the walls of the courtyard, I realized. They were sinking into the 
ground, leaving us exposed. 

B-B-B-Boss Battle! 

The voice was distorted, even louder than last time. 

You have discovered the lair of a Borough Boss! 

Ladies and Gentlemen, it is time for the main event! Are you ready? 
Can you feel it coming? ISAID ARE YOU READY? 

I want you to put your hands together. 

Aaaand here. We. Gooooo! 

I grimaced as I waited for the walls of the round courtyard to finish 
sinking into the earth. 

I turned to Brandon. “Get ready.” I had to shout the words. 

The man nodded. Sweat beaded on his forehead. Behind, the three 
others spread out. Chris and short Yolanda both looked absolutely terrified. 
Imani clutched her sword in two hands, looking grim. Agatha stood there, 
seemingly oblivious, scratching a hair between her two bulbous eyes. 

Our seven mugshots appeared floating in the air, one by one. I noted we 
were in three groups. The Royal Court of Princess Donut. Meadow Lark. 
And Agatha was just Crawler Agatha. The giant Versus slammed into 
place. The metallic word was in a silver font instead of a bronze one this 
time. The words burst into flames, and even though this was supposedly 
virtual text, I felt a blast of heat. 

And that’s when we saw it. 

With the wall fully retracted, a hallway spread before us, like we were 
standing on the landing before a tunnel in a subway, but without the drop. 
The round tunnel was about as wide a single lane freeway, about fifteen feet 
tall. The creature roared by right in front of us, startlingly fast, moving from 
right to left. It was massive, made of flesh, rolling like a pinball. It stank of 
sewage and rotten meat. It grunted and squealed, a high-pitched, angry pig 


noise. The flesh was pink, rippling, covered in eyes and random hairs and 
tusks. But there was something else there, too. Random flaps of black and 
white cloth were embedded in the flesh, mixed in with swaths of red- 
sequined fabric. 

“What in the holy hell is that?” Brandon shouted. “It looks like there 
are...” 

The world froze. 

The 

Ball 

of 

Swine! 

Level 15 Borough Boss! 

Also known as the Porkchop Express, the Ball of Swine is one of the 
rarest, most deadly battle formations of the Tuskling. Encompassing at 
least 30 Tuskling knights and their lady loves, a Ball formation requires 
a specific set of circumstances to create. Combine a gathering of 
Tuskling aristocracy, add an alcohol-fueled, sexually-charged orgy of 
war lust, and sometimes, just sometimes, the wild, ancient battle magic 
that permeates their war-torn world casts the spell, forming the ball. 
The Tusklings, the ruling class of the Orcish Supremacy, shape into an 
inseparable sphere that rolls onto the countryside. The ball of pork 
won't stop its night of terror until it has crushed the poor, the weak, 
and the lesser citizens under its unstoppable weight. 

Plucked directly from a Tuskling High Caucus moments after it 
formed, this particular ball has been transferred here to this dungeon 
for your entertainment, ladies and gentlemen. The magic of the ball 
won’t allow them to stop until every last drop of Crawler blood is 
squeezed right out of their human bodies! 

The world unfroze, and the ball continued its trajectory, rolling away 
down the path. Ahead of me, more walls moved and shifted, grinding 
loudly. The walls and entranceways were creating new paths, guiding the 
massive ball in our direction. 

“Wow,” Donut said from my shoulder. “I’m feeling really ignored right 
now. Why is it always human this, human that? Why can’t it be ‘blood 
squeezed out of their human and feline bodies?’” 

Looking to my left and right, I could see what was about to happen. 
With the lowering of the walls, a new path opened up, and we were on it. 


The heavy, pounding music was deliberate. We could no longer feel the 
oncoming train of the giant pig ball. At its current speed, it would circle 
around onto us in a minute, maybe less. 

“Move!” I cried. 

“Where?” Brandon called. 

“Away from here,” I said. 

I pulled the first of several spike strips from my inventory and dropped 
it on the ground before rushing forward. We moved toward the long, wide 
path the ball had just rocketed over. A moment later, the ball rushed past 
again, right where we’d been standing, missing Agatha and her shopping 
cart by inches. The woman cackled with joy as the squealing wind blew up 
the flaps on her hat. 

In the brief moment it passed by, I caught sight of a tuskling face jutting 
from the center side of the ball, spinning like an ornamental car rim. The 
orc creature was large and meaty from what I could tell. It held a tusked, 
wild boar of a face that was twice as wide as a person’s. The face had four 
tusks. Two long, curved tusks and a second pair further back, crossed in 
front of its ugly face. This one was female, I guessed. Purple eyeshadow ran 
from the top of its bulbous, black stare. Her crossed tusks were pierced in 
multiple places. She also appeared to have a giant, purple flower on her 
head, but the flower was pressed into the pink flesh of the ball, completely 
flattened. Her mouth was open in a constant, angry squeal. 

Above the monstrosity appeared a health bar. It was fully green, but the 
spike strip had damaged it for at least a single point. That was good. 

A wall rose into the air, blocking us from going back the direction we’d 
just come. 

Our plan hadn’t anticipated that the walls were going to change. 
Looking at the ground, I could see a groove had formed onto the stone, 
multiple, concentric circles leading toward the center of the small arena. 
Some of the grooves led directly into walls. 

Amongst the grooves, dozens of long, straight lines crisscrossed the 
ground at right angles. This was where the walls would go up and down. 
We needed to find a flat area wide enough for our redoubt. The deeper we 
went, the closer to the stairs, the more quickly the pig ball would circle 
around. 

“Look for solid hunks of ground. Big ones with no grooves!” I called as 
I threw a second spike strip onto the ground. “And go!” 


An entranceway to the next ring appeared about ten feet behind us. 
“Move!” I cried. We rushed for the small gate, Agatha going in first. A hunk 
of stone started rising from the ground as I rushed through, stumbling. 

“There!” Imani called, pointing to a large square on the ground through 
a second doorway, yet another circle deeper. It was like a gap in the path, 
designed to encompass two circles at once. 

“Go!” I cried, rushing forward and dropping a third and a fourth strip. 
Despite the heavy bass, I felt the ball hurtle past on the other side of the 
wall. High-pitched squealing rocketed away like the whine of a racecar. It’s 
getting faster. 

We rushed to the center of the square. This chunk of the floor was like a 
railroad switch, a place where the ball could change paths. The space was 
about 15 feet by 15 feet with no crevices. Perfect. 

“Tt’s coming from this way,” I said, pointing right. “I think it needs two 
loops to get here. Let’s do this. Just like we practiced. Go!” I pointed at 
Agatha. “You, sit your ass down on the ground in the middle, and don’t 
move.” 

“I ain’t leaving my... Hey!” Agatha cried as I grasped the heavy cart 
from both sides and lifted it into the air, wasting a few precious seconds to 
put it into my inventory. 

“Thief!” she cried. “Thief!” 

“Agatha, he’ll give it back. Sit down!” Yolanda cried as she started 
pulling her V-shaped braces from her inventory. 

I ignored the screaming, crazy woman as I pulled the heavy goblin table 
from my own inventory and placed it on its side. All around me, the others 
went to work. We’d been practicing this for hours. We’d gotten it down to 
less than 20 seconds for the main structure, and another 20 to put it all 
together. Hopefully that was enough time. 

It had taken us almost five hours to build the pieces of the redoubt, or as 
Brandon called it, “The Speedbump.” Brandon and his brother weren’t 
nurses at the facility. They were the maintenance guys, and these dudes 
knew what they were doing. They didn’t normally work after hours, but 
they’d been there that night, pushing overtime, trying to fix an oven that 
was on the fritz before the morning staff showed up to make breakfast. I 
had described my idea. I spread out a bunch of the looted goblin tools for 
them, explained exactly what I wanted to do, and we went straight to work. 


We created a portable, modular fortress. Consisting of tables, weight 
equipment, and loads of other odds and ends, the angled, four-foot-high 
structure looked like a lopsided tortoise shell when it was completed. 

We didn’t have any sort of welding equipment, but the goblins had 
hand-cranked drills and large, toothed bolts designed to screw into the holes 
the drills created. They also had these small, half-moon saws that cut 
through steel with alarming ease. We removed the legs from the workshop 
tables then bolted new ones on, utilizing the load-bearing legs from the 
weight equipment. The tables were designed to sit solidly at a low angle 
when we put them on their side. After, we bolted weight benches onto the 
sides of the tables, like attaching shutters to the edges of a door frame. 

Both Brandon and Imani had received items that gave them boosts to 
their strength, and they each had two sections of wall to place. The pieces 
were large and unwieldy, and heavy as shit, but when placed down in the 
correct order—Imani, then Brandon, then Imani, then me with the largest 
piece, and then finally Brandon—the multiple pieces slid together, bolts 
moving into precisely-placed holes. Brandon and I moved to the roof— 
made of the cross bars of weight racks—while Chris and Imani twisted 
massive, fist-sized butterfly bolts, affixing the pieces together. Yolanda 
pulled the rest of the angled braces out of her inventory, sliding them into 
place one after another, moving in a circle around the circumference of the 
pentagon-ish defense. 

“This is just like something they’d do on that show, The A-Team,” 
Donut had exclaimed when we’d practiced this earlier. “Or maybe 
MacGyver. The real MacGyver with the hair and the stargate. Not that 
abysmal remake.” 

“I liked that show,” Chris had said as he worked. It was the first and 
only time I had heard him speak. 

“Which one? The A-Team or MacGyver?” Donut asked. “Or do you 
mean the remake? Please tell me you don’t mean the remake.” 

Chris never answered. 

Once the top was bolted into place, Brandon, Imani, and I moved to the 
last, crucial part. The braces for the roof: five heavy-duty barbell poles 
designed to hold more than a thousand pounds of weight each. I discovered 
if I held my hand in just the correct place and called the heavy pole from 
inventory, it wedged itself perfectly between the roof and ground, solid as a 
concrete pillar. 


Our mini fortress had a usable area of about ten by ten feet, and we had 
to move about on our hands and knees. It was tight when it was just the six 
of us, but with the addition of Agatha, who continued to wail about her 
damn shopping cart, we could barely move without slamming each other. 
And because she’d joined us, we didn’t have room to place the final, center 
pole. 

I looked worriedly at that center cross-section of the roof just as Donut 
exclaimed, “Here it comes!” 

If this boss had any sort of fire or lightning or acid attack, we were 
absolutely fucked. So far it seemed each boss only had one main attack, and 
this one’s was pretty obvious. It rolled right the fuck over you. 

My kneepads had an attribute that canceled out momentum-based 
attacks. But if my experience with videogames was any indication, one 
couldn’t count on that sort of thing when it came to bosses. Plus there was 
no way I was going to test it. 

Once, as a kid, I was riding down a country road with my mom and dad. 
They’d been fighting, as usual, and I’d climbed into the very back of the 
SUV, as far back as I could get. I’d oftentimes do this, staring out the rear 
window as the world whipped by, pretending like I was in the cockpit of a 
spaceship. On this day a large, yellow truck was behind us. It was one of 
those box trucks, a Penske, something people rented to move. 

It happened so fast. One moment, I was staring up at the guy, who was 
getting so close to my dad’s ass that I had to crane my neck up to see him, 
and then, the truck was just stopped, pulling away from us, the top peeled 
off like a sardine can. We’d gone under a bridge, and the truck was too tall. 
As I watched, the sides of the truck fell away, spilling furniture and boxes 
all over the road with a resounding crash! The main cab of the truck tilted 
violently to its side, broken away from the rest of the body. My dad heard 
the accident, looked up into the rearview mirror, muttered, “That’s a 
shame,” and just kept driving as my mom yelled at him to stop. He didn’t. 

That’s what I was hoping would happen here. This massive ball of flesh 
filled the hallway, from the ground to the ceiling. My forward section of the 
redoubt was wider, giving a more gradual angle, just enough to wedge the 
ball between us and the ceiling nice and tight. 

Like Mordecai had suggested, I needed to look at the clues. Those 
strange entrances dotting the side of the arena were there for a reason. It 


was so we could catch a glimpse of the monster. All I could see was that it 
was big, round, fast, and shoved tightly into the tunnel. 

My first idea was to build a solid wall, but as we observed the ball from 
one of the many portcullis entrances, the track forced the monster directly 
into a 90 degree angle. It bounced right off, barely losing speed as it turned 
away. There will always be clues. 

It never lost momentum. It just kept going and going. So we needed to 
stop it somehow, and we needed to be in a position to do something about it 
once it did. I was hoping it’d hit our structure and get wedged in good. 
From there, Imani would stab, Donut would shoot missiles, Chris would 
cast his spells, and the rest of us would jab our makeshift ninja-star-tipped 
Spears up into the boss until its health ran out. 

Most of the goblin tables were made of thick, hefty steel, which was 
why they were so damn heavy. The wide table we used for the front of the 
redoubt also had a pitted wooden covering. Brandon, Chris, and I had spent 
a good five minutes throwing fifty of my ninja shuriken deep into the wood, 
adding black spikes to the ramp. Spikes that would hopefully damage the 
boss each time they pierced its flesh. Unfortunately, only about 20 of the 
stars remained unbroken. 

That part had been Brandon’s idea. Pd shown him the shuriken and 
allowed him to read the description. 

“These things are way more powerful than you realize,” he’d said, voice 
filled with awe. “Do the math. Compounding damage means if you poke 
something 200 times, it’s like literally millions of points of damage.” 

“I don’t do math,” I said. “But I do know we ain’t poking anything 200 
times with these things. Look.” I pulled a single star out. I’d tested it earlier 
to see if I had any sort of ninja skill. It’d received a single chip, and the red 
enchantment had faded away. Mordecai wasn’t kidding when he said these 
things were fragile. They were clearly meant to only be used once, 
tempering their value. 

Despite their fragility, we’d used several of the stars to create the spike 
strips, nothing more than a pair of stars placed between two pieces of 
bolted-together wood. They’d survive one or two stabbings before breaking. 
The strips wouldn’t be stopping the monster by themselves, but each time it 
rolled over one, the amount of damage inflicted on the boss would increase 
by 8%. 


“Brace,” I cried, grasping onto the wall as the monster barreled toward 
us, impossibly fast. 

Crash! 

The entire structure shuddered and slid with a horrifying screech. All 
four of the ceiling braces popped out of place and went flying. One bounced 
hard off Yolanda, throwing her over. The terrible stench filled the now-dark 
chamber. An unending, high-pitched squealing filled the air. 

We'd done it. 

The ceiling sagged, bending ominously as dark squares of flesh pushed 
through the empty spaces of the lattice pattern. The ceiling was going to 
break. We were going to be crushed. The ball had managed to squeeze itself 
between the top of the tunnel and our fortress, the massive pressure pushing 
down against our defense. 

“Stab!” I cried as the stick appeared in my hand. It was half of a chin-up 
bar with a goblin clamp at the end, clutched onto a tied-together cluster of 
three stars. I hoped they’d be less likely to break if bunched together. I 
jabbed upward, poking the flesh. It felt as if I was doing nothing. Next to 
me, Imani struggled to get her longsword angled and through the holes in 
the ceiling. She was pushing her sword all the way in and pulling out, over 
and over. Pigs squealed, blood rained. The music quickened. To my left, 
bolts popped from holes, shooting off like bullets. One clobbered Agatha, 
who didn’t appear to notice despite a well of blood that appeared. She was 
still screaming something about her shopping cart. Above, the pressure 
grew. I stabbed, and I stabbed. 

And then, just as the top collapsed, I pierced upward and there was a 
mighty Pop! like a balloon. 

Tuxedoed male and female tusklings in glittering, formal gowns rained 
down upon us as our ill-fated fortress collapsed. The lattice-patterned 
ceiling broke into pieces, the metal clanging and bending where it was 
bolted together. My hobbled-together spear was caught in one of the 
ceiling’s holes. It ripped out of my hands as I was violently crushed onto the 
ground. I arched my back, protecting Donut under my body. Squeals and 
screams and hollering filled the hall as my minimap turned into a mass of 
red dots. 

A fat, heavy orc crashed into me, and we both rolled, tangled in pieces 
of ceiling. Donut yowled and leaped away. The ninja star-covered tabletop 
lay broken to my right. A handful of stars still glowed red, and the creature 


rolled onto them, squealing with pain. I pulled myself to my feet just as 
Donut leaped onto my shoulder. She was screaming something incoherent, 
shooting magic missiles point blank at the tusklings, who rocketed 
backward with each hit. 

I stepped on the squealing tuskling, smushing him deeper into the 
shuriken-covered wood. His health bar dropped, slowly at first and then just 
plummeted away as the exponential damage bonus kicked in. 

Half of the creatures were already dead. 

I caught eyes with the next closest tuskling, a male in a tuxedo. He was 
unarmed and completely disoriented. He held what appeared to be a wine 
flute in his hand that was miraculously unbroken and still full of alcohol. 
The creatures were odd, much shorter than I had anticipated. They had 
large, wide bodies and torsos one and a half times as bulky as a regular 
human. Their large, warthog heads sat too close to their shoulders, making 
them look neckless. But from the waist down, their bodies were comically 
short. The beasts only stood about four and a half feet tall. I quickly 
examined his properties as the tottering creature pulled the wine flute to his 
mouth. 

Tuskling Knight. Level 4. 

When it comes to the Tuskling, their titles are about as accurate as 
their dating website photos. The once-mighty warriors conquered the 
Orcish Supremacy hundreds of years ago, defeating all the other clans. 
They are now shells of the mighty warriors they once were. The 
honorarium “Knight” roughly translates to “Overweight, alcoholic 
bureaucrat who spends his days making new laws to oppress the poor 
and his nights drinking and getting pegged.” Knights and their slightly- 
more dangerous female counterparts, Tuskling Courtesans, are only 
worthy adversaries when they come together to form an ancient, 
Tuskling battle formation known as a “Ball of Swine.” 

I formed a fist. 

“On my back,” I called to Donut. She was out of magic missiles, and 
she’d already taken a mana potion. She dove under my cloak, hanging onto 
the back of my jacket like a backpack. She’d pop up when she’d 
regenerated enough mana to cast another missile over my shoulder. 

I pulled my arm back and punched the fat, tuxedoed knight with all of 
my strength. The pig man’s health was already in the red, and his face caved 
in under the crushing blow of the spiked gauntlet. He dropped, still 


clutching onto his glass of wine. Half of his snout remained attached to my 
fist. 

Miraculously, I didn’t feel a thing. I only felt the impact in my arm. Not 
my hand. 

“Yes,” I said, whirling on my next opponent as I shook the gore free. A 
female. A Courtesan. The men were all level four, and the women were all 
level five. This one was slightly taller and fatter than the others. She wore a 
glittering red gown with multiple leather straps looped over and around her 
like a vest. It was like some sort of weird BDSM getup. She, too, was 
looking around, dazed, and screaming in confusion. It seemed they had no 
memories of their time in the pig ball. They were victims, just as all the 
other bosses had been. 

But their dots were red, time was running out, and they weren’t human. 
I took a step forward, and I swung. The punch knocked her health down 
halfway. She hit the ground with an oof, raising her arms to block the 
blows. I kicked at her savagely, screaming, maybe crying. I kicked and I 
kicked until her health bar went away. 

Behind the woman, Imani was also screaming, swinging her sword as 
tears streamed down her face. She stood over the prone form of Yolanda, 
whose health bar was alarmingly low. Brandon had retrieved his giant maul, 
which glittered with lightning when he swung it. Chris twirled an ethereal, 
magic spear. The spear was a spell he could cast. It lasted for five minutes. 

Agatha hadn’t moved, but she stood once the walls fell away. Blood 
gushed down the side of her head, her eyes wide as she watched the action. 
She clutched her hands together. 

All of the internal walls had retracted once we’d popped the swine ball. 
We’d gone from a tight hallway to a wide-open field. The purple-hued arena 
spread around us, the size of an entire quadrant. The music still beat, and 
colorful lasers shot through the space like we were in a massive, 1980s 
themed roller rink. The roof raised the closer it got to the center. A bright 
light shone at the very center of the dome. The stairs. A red forcefield 
surrounded the stairwell. 

I knew exactly what had to be done to get that forcefield to drop. 

There were more of the tusklings than there were of us, but they were 
shocked and confused, having been transported from their own world to this 
place. 

They were weaponless, they were untrained, and they were slaughtered. 


OceanofPDE.com 


THE LAST TUSKLING TO FALL WAS DIFFERENT THAN THE OTHERS. SHE WAS A 
level eight, a “Tuskling Dominatrix.” She fell after being crushed under 
Brandon’s hammer. 

The music stopped, and the lights returned to normal. The world froze. 
The Winner! notification appeared. Behind me, Chris fell to his knees, and 
he hung his head low. We just looked at each other, nobody saying 
anything. Imani fed Yolanda a health potion, and the woman sat up, 
wobbling, holding the side of her head. Agatha shuffled toward me, shaking 
her fist. Half of the woman’s head was caked in blood, and she didn’t seem 
to notice. 

“Give it back!” she cried. 

“Here,” I said. I pulled the shopping cart into existence a foot off the 
ground, and it crashed down loudly. 

“Hey,” she cried. She clutched an Ikea bag off the top and peered inside, 
as if afraid I’d stolen something. She poked suspiciously at the pink 
flamingo at the end of her cart. 

“You know, you can put all of this into your own inventory,” I said. 
“You don’t need to wheel it around.” 

“She hasn’t gone through the tutorial,” Yolanda said. The small woman, 
who still had blood all over her own face, pulled out a cloth and cleaned off 
Agatha's. "She doesn't have an inventory yet." 

That didn’t surprise me. What did surprise me was that Agatha was 
level two, not one. How had she done that? She wasn’t in the Meadow Lark 
party. That meant she must have killed a mob. I wondered what the story 


was there. Actually, no, I realized, looking at Agatha now. She’d hit level 
four, thanks to the boss. She hadn’t done anything, but she’d been in the 
room, and that counted for something at least. Donut and I were both now 
level 10. Halfway to 11. We’d received a ton of experience, more than I’d 
expected. Imani was level 11 now. Chris and Brandon had skipped level 
seven altogether and were level eight. Yolanda had jumped from five to 
level six. 

I didn’t even want to think about how all that experience was 
distributed. It seemed there were a dozen different calculators running all at 
once to figure it out. It gave me a headache. 

“We need to find whatever the boss dropped,” I said. 

“Its over there,” Donut said. “The Dominatrix lady has it. I already got 
mine.” 

For the first time, I looked about, taking stock of the damage we’d dealt. 
All of us had managed to survive relatively unscathed, but this section of 
the room and everyone in it looked like someone had spilled a giant can of 
Spaghetti-o’s on us from above. The crushed and disemboweled tuskling 
bodies lay everywhere, mixed in with the shattered pieces of our fortress. 

“That didn’t go as expected,” Brandon said. He shook his hand, 
spraying blood everywhere. 

“We’re alive,” I said as I reached down to loot the persistent item from 
the tuskling’s corpse. 

The AI seemed to be doing a whispery David Attenborough 
impersonation as he read the description of the item: 

Borough Field Guild. 

Ahh, look at you. The intrepid explorer. Alone. Lost. Afraid. 

But there is no reason to be frightened. Not today, not now. Not 
when the trusty field guide has added monster types to this area of the 
map. Now when you gaze upon the unknown, that fear is somewhat 
lessened. Instead of delving into the strange, mysterious dark, being 
devoured by an unseen horror, you will now know exactly what it is as 
it chews upon your tasty innards. 

I blinked at the description, then I pulled up my minimap, zooming it 
out. Sure enough, now the individual quadrants were outlined. Most of my 
screen was filled with the large arena, but the very edge of a few adjacent 
quadrants ringed the exterior of the map. I mentally hovered over one to the 


far southeast, in an area none of us had ventured. The fog of war obscured 
the hallways themselves, but when I hovered over it, a tooltip popped up. 

Mobs Level 2-5. Axebeak. 

That would be extremely useful, but like with the neighborhood map, 
the area was limited. Plus one had to actually get to the center and kill the 
boss to get the information. I wasn’t certain exactly how big a “borough” 
really was in this game, though I suspected the area shrank the lower one 
went. 

“Hey, are you kids doing okay?” a voice called. It echoed in the large 
chamber. I turned to see an elderly man edging his way into the room with 
his walker. The walker made a click, click, click each time he pushed his 
way further into the chamber. “We heard a loud noise, and the gate 
disappeared! Oh my, it smells something awful in here.” 

“Randall, don’t come in here!” Yolanda called, jogging toward the man. 

I turned my attention back to the carnage. I gazed at the hoofed feet of 
the tusklings and sighed. They had no shoes, and their legs were much too 
short. I picked up a loose tuxedo jacket. It was like a tent, and it was 
covered with blood. It smelled like hot diarrhea. I put it into my inventory. 

Brandon came to stand next to me. The guy looked shell-shocked. 

“Its weird, isn’t it?” I asked, indicating the carnage. “They’re from 
another world. They’re aliens, right? But they’re wearing tuxedoes. 
Tuxedoes are from earth, not wherever they’re from. I don’t get it.” 

“I asked our guildmaster, Mistress Tiatha, the same thing,” Brandon 
said. He reached down to pick something up from the floor. It was a sharp 
tooth. “One of the mobs we had to fight early on were little, fire-breathing 
monkeys wearing lederhosen. You know what I’m talking about? That 
weird German pantsuit shorts things with the hats. They look like waiters at 
an Octoberfest tent?” 

“Yeah, I know what you mean,” I said. 

“Well, anyway. She said the Synd...” He paused, looking at the ceiling 
dubiously. “The big guys, they not only seeded our world with the people 
millions of years ago, but they keep people here the whole time. Sometimes 
they’re actual humans, but from other worlds. And these guys were steering 
culture. Inventing stuff, writing books and songs that already existed. She 
said every world comes out with their own unique culture and language, but 
some things are universal.” 


“But why?” I asked. “What do they get out of it? It seems like so much 
effort.” 

Brandon shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe they think we’ll integrate 
better if we already have some sort of common ground, but I don’t know. 
We probably won’t ever know. We only see what they let us.” 

I looted the corpses of the tusklings I’d killed myself. There was some 
jewelry that wasn’t enchanted including a ruby necklace that seemed pretty 
valuable according to my inventory list. I took that weird leather thing from 
the woman. The system labeled it as a Pig Harness. There wasn’t any other 
loot in my pile. I saw Imani holding what appeared to be an enormous 
strap-on dildo with two fingers. She dropped it on the floor with a look of 
disgust. Donut hopped over and took it into her own inventory. 

She looked up at me. “Everything, right?” 

I nodded. “Everything.” 

I salvaged all the ninja stars I could find and all the remaining pieces of 
the redoubt. I had a new tab in my inventory labeled Worthless Garbage. 

I also spent a few minutes surreptitiously looking around the arena for 
the remains of the party that had gone before us. Their X’s didn’t appear on 
the map, just as they hadn’t with the elderly folk Imani had killed. I didn’t 
know why. There was probably a tight time limit on that sort of thing, but I 
didn’t know for certain. This game had so many damn rules, I couldn’t wrap 
my head around it. 

Finally, Donut and I approached the stairwell. The forcefield was gone. 
The timer was at five hours and counting. 

I looked back over my shoulder at the others. Brandon was talking 
quietly with his brother while Yolanda and Imani had started bringing the 
others into the large room. Chris jogged off as I watched. I knew exactly 
where he was going. He was headed toward that safe room. He’d tell the 30 
folks waiting that they could leave if they wanted to. 

“What do you want to do?” I quietly asked Donut. 

“Whatever do you mean?” 

“We’re going to go down those stairs, and it’s going to be a whole new 
floor with new challenges. We can either stick with these guys, or we can 
keep doing our own thing.” 

Donut looked up, her large, yellow eyes boring into me. 

“Oh, Carl. How is it I know what you’re going to do before you do?” 
she asked. 


I looked at the gathering group of elderly folks, and I nodded. Shit. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. She was right. Of course. What was the 
point of living, if I couldn’t live with myself? 

I reached into my pocket and I pulled out my last cigarette. I looked at it 
for a long moment. I popped it into my mouth, and I lit it. It tasted like ash. 

“I suggest we do what we’ve been doing,” Donut said. “It doesn’t have 
to be one or the other option. We set up a place for them to remain safe, and 
then you and I go out and do our own thing. We can keep our own party and 
set up a group chat with the others. I know how to do it now. When we find 
the next set of stairs down, we go get them and bring them with us.” 

I grinned down at the cat. “I knew there was a good kitty in there 
somewhere.” 

She bristled. “If it were up to me, I’d leave them all. But I know you’re 
a softy. Besides, if we get them down to that third level, we’ll need 
someone with thumbs if you’re going to turn into a cat.” 

“Tm not turning myself into a cat,” I said. “I couldn’t even if I want to, 
anyway. Mordecai said so.” I dropped the cigarette, unfinished. I ground it 
out on the floor. I went to a knee and patted her. She let me. 

“By the way,” I asked as I stroked the cat. “I’ve been meaning to ask 
you. Who’s Ferdinand?” 

Donut pulled away at that, her tail swishing. “I have no idea whatever 
you’re talking about. Whoever that is, he sounds like someone awful. 
Wait... where’s Agatha?” 

I looked about for the woman. I didn’t see her. Had she gone outside? I 
turned toward the stairs, and I noticed they weren’t stairs at all, but a long 
ramp. Shit. The woman is going to get herself killed. 

“Okay, here’s the plan,” I said to Brandon later, after we finished 
examining the stairwell. “We’re going to go down there and make sure the 
area is clear for you and your people. Do you need our help with your 
people?” 

“No,” Brandon said. “We got it. You don’t want to go and open your 
boxes first?” 

“I do,” I said, “but the closest place to do it is pretty far, and I don’t 
want to tempt fate. We’ll go down and try to find the closest safe room. Our 
guy said they’re just as easy to find on the second floor as the first. Once we 
do, we’ll carve a safe path to it.” 

“Okay then,” Brandon said. He held out his hand. 


“Thank you. I mean that.” I shook it. He then went to his knee and 
scratched Donut. “You too, Princess Donut.” 

“Of course, sweetheart,” she said, pushing her head against his hand. 

“Oh,” Brandon said, “and try to find Agatha if you can. She’s a crazy 
asshole, but she’s our crazy asshole.” 

I nodded. We turned and headed toward the stairs. I looked at Donut. 
“You ready?” 

She flipped her tail, and I followed her down the ramp. 


At the bottom of the stairs-turned-ramp was a door almost identical to the 
one we’d used to enter the dungeon. I stared at the giant carving of the fish 
man. Go fuck yourself I thought as I put my hand against the door. I pushed. 

But instead of the gate opening like last time, there was a flash of light 
and a moment of disorienting nausea, followed by a quick feeling of falling. 

And then suddenly Donut and I were standing in a plush room staring at 
a strange, round door. All of my status bars had disappeared. I turned in a 
circle, bewildered. There was a couch that appeared to be made of blue 
crushed velvet. I stood upon a soft, thick carpet, also blue. There was a 
strange sense of motion to the room, and I immediately knew we were on a 
boat. I could tell right away from experience that this vessel was large, but 
not huge. Maybe 100 feet. At the far end of the room was a bar with an 
honest-to-goodness fruit basket sitting on it. Sitting next to the basket was a 
stemmed bowl filled with what seemed to be cat food. Instinctively, I made 
a fist, and my gauntlet appeared. Only partially relieved, I unsummoned my 
weapon. 

“What the fuck is this?” I asked. 

But the second the words came out of my mouth, I knew exactly what 
this was. 

Donut was literally hopping up and down, her tail ramrod straight. 
“Carl, Carl! It’s happening! It’s really happening!” 

Just as my addled brain was coming to terms with our sudden change of 
scenery, the door irised open. A woman wearing a simple black dress 
stepped in, clutching onto a tablet. She was human, but clearly not from 
Earth. She was absurdly thin. Not anorexic. She just seemed more squished 


than a regular human. She stood about five foot five, so a normal height, but 
her head was only about 3/4s as wide as it should be, making her appear 
almost elf-like, but without the prerequisite pointed ears. She seemed to be 
about my age, and her features were Asian, but with long, blonde hair she 
kept in a tight bun. 

“Hello Carl and Your Majesty, Princess Donut,” she said, speaking in 
Syndicate Standard. Her voice was light and musical. Almost cartoonish. 
“My name is Lexis. I am an associate producer for the program, Dungeon 
Crawler After Hours with Odette. Congratulations on that last battle, and 
congratulations on making it down to the second floor. Odette would love to 
interview you two, on air, regarding your progress so far.” 

Donut squealed with pleasure. 


OceanofPDF.com 


| PART 2 | 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 28 ] 


“Oxay,” LEXIS SAID AS I SAT DOWN ON THE COUCH, MY HEAD SPINNING. I 
was still covered in blood, and I suddenly felt very, very dirty. “We’ll be 
ready for you in about twenty minutes. Please relax and avail yourselves of 
the complimentary treats.” She indicated the bar. “Okay?” 

“Okay,” Donut said. 

I still couldn’t believe it. Actually, I could believe it. Five nights ago I’d 
gone to bed, and everything I’d been worried about was so stupid, so petty, 
so... small. We were about to be interviewed on a program that would be 
seen by trillions of people. 

“A couple of things,” Lexis continued, talking fast. “I know this is 
probably disorienting to you, being your first interview. Right now, you are 
standing in what is called a production trailer. It is located on the surface of 
your planet. You are still technically in the game even though you can’t use 
your menus. Like safe rooms, production trailers have their own rules, too 
many to discuss now.” She reached forward and touched my shoulder. She 
felt hollow, almost weightless. Like a bird. “I am really here right now with 
you. However, my engineer and I are the only other people here. When you 
walk through that door.” She pointed over her shoulder, indicating the oval- 
shaped entrance that opened and closed like a camera shutter, “you’re going 
to walk onto a studio set. From what I understand, this setup should be very 
familiar to your culture. This studio, including Odette and the entire 
audience is not really there. The couch is there, but everything else is 
virtual. They are filming from a location very far away. I’m supposed to tell 
you it is similar to the holodeck from your television series, Star Trek, 
however you won’t be able to touch anything. Any other guests, even fellow 


crawlers will also be holo, at least for this interview. You are the only 
crawlers in this particular production trailer. I will tell you when it’s time, 
and you will walk onto the set. You will wave, and you will proceed directly 
to the couch next to the desk, Your Majesty sitting closer to Odette. Do not 
approach the audience, or you will run into a wall that you can’t see. That 
room is not as big as it appears. Questions?” 

I just stared at the woman. I hadn’t felt this out of my element since the 
moment the dungeon first opened. 

“Makeup?” Donut asked. 

“Not for this interview, Your Majesty,” Lexis said. “The audience will 
have just watched a highlights reel of your time in the dungeon followed by 
the entirety of that last boss fight. It will appear as if you walked straight 
from the fight to the stage.” 

“Got it,” Donut said. “So we address her as Odette?” 

“Correct.” 

“Live or taped?” 

“Tt’s taped, though it will be tunneled in just a few short hours.” 

“What’s the tone of the show? Is it more editorial or more fluff? What 
works better with your audience? Do you want us to be serious and more 
technical, or should I just let Carl be Carl?” 

Donut was asking these questions as if she’d been doing this her whole 
life. 

A smile tugged at the corner of Lexis’s mouth. “This is a private 
production about the crawl. It won’t be censored. The more entertaining 
you are, the better it will play.” 

“Got it,” Donut said. 

“Hold up a second,” I said. “What do you mean by ‘private 
production’?” 

Lexis turned to me. “The main program, Dungeon Crawler World: 
Earth is owned by the Syndicate Government, and this season it is produced 
by the Mu... The Borant Corporation. Syndicate rules allow for private 
production companies to produce their own programs as long as they pay 
for the production themselves and pay an advertising stipend. This 
particular show, Dungeon Crawler After Hours with Odette will tunnel 
immediately after the main program. It is produced by the Titan 
Conglomerate with production assistance by over a dozen participating, 
independent systems. It is the largest, most-tunneled private program in 


existence. The host, Odette, is the most-beloved interviewer and program 
host in the history of the galaxy. So try to make a good impression.” 

“Wonderful,” I said, leaning back. “Just wonderful.” 

Next to me, Donut was shaking with excitement. Literally shaking. 

“Anything else we should know?” Donut asked. 

“Nope,” Lexis said. “Just be yourselves, have fun with the questions, 
and you’ll be fine.” 

“Thank you, Lexis,” Donut said. “That’ll be all.” 

“Great,” Lexis said. She hit a button on her tablet, turned, and strode out 
of the room. 

I looked at the cat sitting next to me, and I wondered, not for the first 
time, if this was all a dream. An hour and a half earlier I’d been certain I 
was about to die, and now I was aboard some sort of yacht from another 
planet, ready to be interviewed on an intergalactic talk show. 

“Okay,” Donut said the moment Lexis left the room. She started to 
frantically clean herself. “Let me do all the talking unless Odette asks a 
question directly of you. I just can’t believe it. I am so excited!” 

“Just, be careful, okay?” I said. I stood, moving toward the odd door. It 
did not open on its own. There were no windows, but there was a small 
door by the bar. I pushed it open, revealing a bathroom with a litterbox. 
Above the toilet was a round porthole about the size of a dinner plate. I 
stood upon the toilet, straining on my tiptoes to peer outside. It was dark, 
and I couldn’t see a thing except the glint of the moon off relatively-calm 
water. Stars shone in night sky. I felt an unexpected longing at the sight of 
the stars. I put my hand against the window to see if I could push it open. 
Whatever this was, it wasn’t glass. There didn’t appear to be a way of 
escape. I wondered what would happen if I formed my gauntlet and 
punched the window as hard as I could. 

Probably nothing. And even if we did escape, then what? We were in the 
middle of the ocean in the middle of winter, and I still didn’t have pants. 

“Careful of what?” Donut asked from the other room. 

“These people aren’t our friends,” I said, coming back into the room. I 
took a banana from the fruit basket, peeled it, and took a bite. “Don’t forget 
that.” 

I attempted to put the rest of the fruit and the basket into my inventory, 
but my menus weren’t working at all. 


There was no garbage can in the room. An oversight. I tossed the peel 
on the counter. 

“Do you want this cat food?” I asked, sniffing it. 

“Are you crazy?” Donut said. “And get it all over my face?” 

There was a little bag sitting behind the bowl of wet cat food. Purrfect 
Cat Treats. They had done their research. I picked up the bag and shook it. 
Donut was on the counter a half a second later. “Okay, but just one.” 

I took an apple and bit down as Donut ate her fifth treat. The apple 
suddenly reminded me of the dead, naked form of Rebecca W. I put it back 
in the basket, no longer hungry. 

“Carl,” Donut said as she crunched down on another treat. “Out there 
with all the punching and the grunting and the disgusting, exploding 
goblins. That is your world.” She made a motion with her paw, indicating 
this room. “This is mine. I know this might be difficult for you to 
understand, but I have been doing this my entire life. Every cat show I have 
ever done is an interview. I was bred for this. Let me do my thing.” 

“You didn’t talk before,” I said. “And having a judge stick her finger up 
your ass is not the same thing as being interviewed for a television show.” 

“I have never had anybody ever stick anything up there, thank you very 
much. Really, Carl. Don’t be so crude. This is why I’m to do the talking.” 

“Okay, you two,” Lexis said, coming into the room. “Let’s go.” 

“Don’t be surly. You can be surly sometimes,” Donut whispered as we 
lined up outside the door. 

A small ping emanated from Lexis’s tablet. The door irised open. 

“Go,” Lexis said, putting her hand on my back, pushing. “Smile and 
wave. Smile and wave!” 

I was propelled out of the room, Donut walking in front of me with her 
tail swishing back and forth as we moved from the small room onto a giant, 
brightly-lit set. 

I was momentarily blinded as we stepped out. And even though we 
hadn’t really moved off the surface, I was briefly overwhelmed. I am seeing 
something from another world. Holy shit. 

I heard the audience before I saw them. They were going berserk. 
Hoots, hollers, and animal-like trills filled the room, shaking the floor. I 
realized, belatedly, that I had stopped. Donut, seeing I had stopped, also 
paused, but she made it took like it was on purpose. She circled, sat down 
halfway between the door and the couch, and she rolled on her side, 


hopping up onto her feet, and swishing her tail. Her armored skirt poofed 
out with a little jingle as she hopped. The cheers got louder. 

I used the moment to look about the room. It was just as Lexis had 
described. It was a black stage with a space-themed nebula background. 
The colorful, spinning cloud of blue and red space dust and the dots of 
distant stars filled the back wall. Odette’s desk was, well, a desk. It sat next 
to a couch identical to the one in the waiting room. “The green room,” 
Donut had called it, even though it was blue. The set could’ve been from 
any earth talk show, with a couple of glaring differences. 

There were no visible cameras. The lights seemed to come out of 
nowhere, appearing and disappearing without any sort of physical source. 

The audience was mostly in shadow. It was a large room, with seats and 
something else—viewing pods of some sort—stretching up in a stadium 
pattern. I watched as some of the audience members vanished, flickered, 
and reappeared. The crowd was a shadowy sea of aliens of all types. 
Humans, pig-headed orcs similar to the ones we’d just killed, and eagle- 
headed creatures like Mordecai’s true form. Bug-eyed, expressionless gray 
aliens. Tentacled things. Dozens of others, too many to take in. The viewing 
pods were filled with murky water, and I caught sight of what might’ve 
been a kua-tin, though much thinner than the image in the door carving. 

And then there was Odette. 

Looking upon the woman, it was difficult for my brain to put it all 
together. I kept thinking what the fuck? What the fucking fuck, over and 
over. Part crab, part praying mantis, part centerfold for Juggz magazine’s 
“Freaks of Nature” issue. I just stared, not able to tell if I was looking at one 
creature. Or two. Or five. 

But then she moved, and something clicked in my brain, allowing it all 
to come together. 

Odette was a naked crab-taur wearing a bug mask. 

The lower body of the woman was entirely crab. Black and red with a 
lumpy shell and multiple, chitinous legs. The shape and makeup of the shell 
was that of a king crab, but the size of a brown bear. Her body seemed 
completely separate from the rest of her form. The legs crowded one 
another, unable to tuck themselves underneath the desk. The legs seemed to 
twitch on their own accord. Malevolent, ready to strike. Her triangular bug 
head was black with mirrored, compound eyes the size of footballs. Twin 


antennae spread from her head with a span over at least six feet, as wide as 
the crab body. 

But the oddest part of this woman was her torso. 

Her naked, ebony body, from her stomach to her neck was that of a 
plus-sized, human model who had bribed a third-world plastic surgeon into 
enhancing her breasts well beyond anything that could ever be considered 
natural. Or sexy. Or anything other than what-the-fuck. The colossal breasts 
sat atop the table like a pair of pigs suckling against their mother. Her 
nipples faced downward, her areolas absurdly oversized, even on the 
massive breasts, each the size of a DirectTV satellite dish. 

There was no conceivable way, even as big as she was, that her body 
could sustain those ginormous breasts without her back breaking like a 
twig. 

Jesus. No wonder this show is so damn popular. 

Donut looked up at me, her yellow eyes pleading for me to move. 

I took a deep breath, plastered a smile on my face, and I waved. Then I 
walked toward the couch. 

Odette calmed the crowd as we settled down. She waved her human- 
like arms at everyone to be quiet. She had long, fake nails that curved like 
claws. They were painted blue, matching the couch. Her body moved oddly, 
rising up and down as the crab body readjusted itself. She raised herself up 
as we Sat, making it so her chest didn’t block the audience’s view of her 
praying mantis head. 

They’d placed a large pillow on the seat so Donut could sit atop it. The 
cat jumped up and sat straight. 

“Welcome, welcome,” Odette said, her voice surprisingly feminine, 
though she sounded older than I expected. “Your majesty, it is a pleasure to 
have you here.” 

“Thank you so much, Odette,” Donut said. “The pleasure is all ours. 
Carl and I have both been looking forward to meeting you. When I first 
heard about you, I couldn’t stop thinking, I really want to get on that couch 
and meet her.” Donut turned to face the crowd. Her voice had gone up a 
pitch, sounding nothing like her regular speaking voice. “And meet all of 
you guys. I dare say, what a great-looking audience. I’d much rather be here 
than with those filthy goblins. How’s everybody doing tonight?” 

The couch vibrated with the sound of the crowd’s pleasure. 

“You enjoying the show?” Donut asked. 


Again, screams. 

“Now, let me ask you something,” Odette said. She turned and leaned 
in. Her massive breasts barely sloshed over, as if she had some sort of 
accordion system connecting her chest with the boobs. “So you might not 
realize this, but we’ve been watching you two from the beginning. You 
might not be getting any love on the official program, but you two are quite 
the sensation. We are so excited to have you on the show tonight. But 
something that people want to know is about your title, Princess Donut. So 
you are earth royalty?” 

No. No, no, no, I thought. Don t. 

“Why yes I am, Odette,” Donut said. “Now, you have to understand, 
Earth has a ruling class. The humans.” She glanced sideways at the crowd 
and lifted her paw. “Thumbs. It’s all about the thumbs.” The crowd laughed. 
“But amongst cats, which is what I am, we have what’s called an elective 
monarchy. But it’s really just a beauty contest. My full name is ‘GC, BWR, 
NW Princess Donut the Queen Anne Chonk.’ I wouldn’t think of boring you 
guys with all of my titles.” She leaned toward the audience and stage 
whispered, “GC stands for Grand Champion.” 

I realized I was staring at Donut as if she’d just sprouted a corndog from 
her forehead. I had to consciously make an effort to close my mouth. An 
elective monarchy? Where the hell did that come from? Who was this cat, 
and what had she done with Donut? 

Odette nodded. I could not read any sort of expression on her bug face. 
“And you’ve won this beauty contest?” 

Donut flipped her tail, and I swear to god the cat fucking winked. She 
looked right into the middle of the crowd and asked, her voice seductive. 
“What do you think?” 

The crowd roared. 

“I love it. You two are so adorable. I’m so happy to have you here with 
us.” Her bug gaze focused on me. 

Ah shit. 

“So, Carl, before you came on, I promised my audience I’d get you to 
Say it.” 

I looked at her blankly. 

“Say what?” I asked. 

“You know,” Odette said. She waved her hand as if she was trying to 
coax it out of me. “Your catchphrase.” 


This is not real life. This can’t be real life. “I have no idea what you’re 
talking about.” 

Odette turned toward the audience. “He doesn’t know what I’m talking 
about.” She laughed. They laughed. “Pll tell you what. Pll give you a hint.” 

A screen appeared, floating in midair in front of me. It was me and 
Donut, from above. It was a scene from early on. We were peering into an 
alleyway, and a moment later I leaped back as a blob of lava rocketed out 
toward us. I screamed, “Goddamnit Donut!” The scene changed. I was 
being attacked by a pair of cockroaches while Donut watched from a pile of 
garbage. “Goddamnit Donut!” I screamed. The scenes kept changing, over 
and over, each time ending with me saying the same thing. I’d said it at 
least fifteen times. 

Odette cocked her head at me. “Figure it out yet?” 

I sighed inwardly, doing my best not to let my dismay show. 
“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. 

Boisterous cheers followed. 

“Now let’s go back to one of those clips we just watched,” Odette said. 
“I was hoping to get some insights from you guys.” 

“Of course,” Donut said. 

That scene with the cockroaches reappeared. I heard my voice call out, 
“A little help here!” 

It was the final moments of our battle with the Hoarder. My stomach 
dropped, watching that scene from above. The camera focused on my own 
face. I was stricken with how scared I looked. The blasting music from the 
fight was gone. The giant woman was gagging and sobbing, and the visceral 
sounds shook my bones. 

“She’s almost dead. You can kill them when you kill her!” Donut cried 
on the video. 

The clip ended, and the audience was screaming with laughter. 

“Now, Carl,” Odette said. Her breasts made a slight sloshing noise on 
the desk. “What’re you thinking here, when Donut wasn’t helping you?” 

“Tt happened so fast,” I said. “I wasn’t thinking anything.” 

“And you, Donut? You saw him there, surrounded. You’re stronger than 
him.” Odette waved her hand, and our stats appeared floating in the air over 
us. “Wow. A lot stronger than him.” 

“Yet here we are,” Donut said. “Carl handled it like the champion he is. 
And besides, darling. If he was in real trouble, I would’ve certainly helped. 


Like I did with that juicy boss we faced.” She looked at me. “What was his 
name? Juicy? Juiced? The Juice? Now that was a fight, wasn’t it?” 

The crowd roared their approval. 

We talked for about five more minutes. Odette would ask a question 
about something that happened. Donut would answer. She had the crowd 
eating out of her paws. Odette asked me about my pants. They showed 
Donut asking if there was a reward for worst-dressed in the dungeon, and it 
showed me standing there, looking pitiful in my knee pads. The words 
WORST DRESSED appeared floating over me. I pretended to laugh. 

“So, what’s next for you two? Do you intend on staying with team 
Meadow Lark?” Odette asked. 

“That’s the plan for now,” Donut said. “It depends on what we find on 
the next floor.” She flicked her tail a few times. “But I want to tell you 
something, Odette.” She stood on the chair, facing the audience. “I promise 
all of you. You guys are going to want to follow me and Carl. You’re going 
to want to favorite us. Because whatever it is we face, we’re not just going 
to kill them.” 

“No?” Odette asked, amused. 

“Oh no. We are going to kill them big. We are going to kill them with 
Style.” 

Thirty seconds later, and the audience was still screaming. 

Odette had to shout over her own crowd. “We are out of time, but thank 
you so much Carl and Her Royal Majesty Princess Donut! Good luck to you 
two! I will see you all next time!” 

The throng continued to go berserk. She’d stolen that line from 
Mordecai. “Kill them with style? Really?” I whispered. 

But Donut didn’t answer. She hadn’t heard me. She stood on the edge of 
the pillow, standing like that damn lion from the Lion King, her chest 
heaving with pride as she looked back into the holographic mass of adoring 
fans. Her eyes sparkled. I suddenly had a feeling of dread. That look. That 
hunger. That was dangerous. She’d had but a single taste, but I could 
already tell. She was addicted to this. To the crowd. To the cheers. It was 
going to be a problem. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I muttered. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[29] 


THE LIGHTS OF THE STUDIO FLIPPED ALL THE WAY ON, AND THE AUDIENCE 
snapped away. The studio remained, but the bleachers were just gone. 
Odette remained behind the desk. 

“Great show everyone,” Odette said, looking up at the ceiling. There 
wasn’t anybody else in the room that I could see. She looked over our 
shoulders. “Give us five, Plexis. Watch the packets and ping me if one of 
those Als sticks their nose in here. I want to talk to our guests for a minute 
without anybody snooping.” 

I turned to see Lexis standing at the door that led back into the green 
room. “Yes, ma’am,” Lexis said, backing into the other room. The door 
closed. 

Odette looked down at Donut. “I do that, too. Pretend to not really 
remember someone’s name. You should see them preen when I suddenly do 
remember. You, Donut, are a natural. Great job. We had that Lucia Mar and 
her two mongrels on stage before you, and that little psychopath does not 
know how to work a crowd. One of her dogs mauled my producer. It’s a 
nightmare. God, I gotta get out of this thing. Give me a moment.” 

I watched in horror as the alien reached up and removed her own head. 
But it wasn’t a head after all. The praying mantis skull was actually a 
helmet. It pulled away to reveal a human woman, approximately sixty years 
old. Her eyes were just a little wide for her face to pass as someone from 
earth. A moment later, the woman’s crab body skittered back, and the chest 
with the enormous breasts remained attached to the desk. Her whole torso 
peeled away, revealing a dark shirt. She wore a necklace with a heart on it. 


If it weren’t for the crab body and the eyes, she’d look like any other 
human. 

“What the hell?” I said, looking at her. “Is the body fake, too?” 

“Everything you see is fake,” Odette said. “This is show business.” 

There was a loud crack, and I watched, fascinated as she pulled herself 
from the crab body using her two arms. The crab collapsed with a clatter, 
like it had just died, its legs curled in on themselves. 

Odette did not have any legs. Her body stopped right at her stomach. A 
flat disk zipped up from under the desk. She pulled herself onto the 
platform, and she floated in midair, able to control her movement. The 
legless human zoomed around the desk and came to hover in front of the 
couch. Her magical wheelchair emanated a slight buzzing sound. 

“Much better,” she said, sighing. “People think it’s the same crab each 
time, but it’s not. We keep a whole nest of the things out on the ranch, and 
we have to kill a new one each time I go on camera. We don’t advertise 
that, lest we raise the ire of one of the many animal and mob rights protest 
groups.” 

“Of all the things to dress up as,” I asked, still looking at the bizarre pair 
of body-less breasts sitting on the table. “Why... that? I couldn’t even tell 
what that is.” 

“Oh, you will,” she said. “That entire getup was my armor when I was 
like you. It was what I was wearing when I reached the stairwell for the 
thirteenth floor. It’s how people know me.” 

“How was that boob thing armor?” 

“Young man,” Odette said. “This gear you have now, this loot? It’s 
nothing compared to what’s coming.” 

“Mordecai... Our trainer guy. He said only one person ever made it to 
the 13th floor, and it was a dude. He died,” I said. 

“That’s true,” Odette said. “I never went down the stairs. I’d struck a 
deal. That’s a long story, and it’s not for today. But I’m glad you brought up 
Mordecai. That’s who I actually want to talk to you about. I know this is his 
last crawl. I’d like for you to tell him to seek me out when this is all over.” 

“Mordecai? How do you know each other?” Donut asked. “Were you on 
the same season?” 

“They couldn’t have been,” I said. “Odette is human, and Mordecai is a 
bird guy. They’re from different planets.” 


“They’re called skyfowl,” Odette said. “And my season was long before 
Mordecai’s. I was his trainer. In fact, that’s how I found you. I keep an eye 
on him, and I watched you guys as you stumbled into his guild room.” 

“His trainer? Wow,” I said. “That must’ve been a really long time ago.” 

“It was,” Odette said. “So, can I count on you?” 

I shrugged. “Sure, we’ll tell him.” 

She nodded. “Thank you. Now, I’m going to give you guys some 
advice. Don’t talk about this out loud once you go back. The mud skippers 
won’t like it.” 

“Mud skippers?” I said. “You mean Bor...” I paused, looking at the 
ceiling. 

“They can’t hear you in here. But don’t say that phrase in the dungeon. 
Mud skipper. They attempted to get it listed as hate speech by the Syndicate 
a couple cycles back. Hardly anyone called them that until they made a big 
deal about it. But yes, that’s what I mean. The kua-tin. Borant. Nobody likes 
the kua-tin, at least not their system of government. Borant is a different 
story. Some of those folks are okay. All they want is to put on a good show. 
I’m sure they were incensed when they were forced into this early release.” 

I looked at Donut. “We won’t say anything,” I said. 

“Good. First thing. You’re going to step onto that second floor, and in a 
day or so, you’re going to find your social numbers have gone meteoric. 
Those people are following you, Carl and Donut. So when you go down to 
the third floor. You,” she pointed at Donut, “need to stay as a cute, cuddly 
cat. They’ ll tempt you with some very powerful creature races. Going viral 
early is both a blessing and a curse. People are in love with Donut the cat. 
Not Donut the saber-toothed void leopard. Don’t change your race, 
whatever you do. I’ve seen it happen dozens of times. They change, and 
their numbers plummet. It’s why nobody sponsors a crawler earlier than the 
fourth floor now.” 

“T wouldn’t even consider it,” Donut said. 

“That’s my girl,” Odette said. 

“And me?” I asked. 

She shrugged. “People are used to seeing humans, so it’s not as crucial 
for you to stay the same. As long as it’s not too different. If she stays that 
tiny little thing, she’s going to need to be protected. Mordecai will be the 
one to lead you through the process of picking a race and class. There’ ll be 
a lot of information. He won’t be allowed to steer you, at least not overtly, 


but if I taught him anything, it’s how to help you decide for yourself. I don’t 
know what’s going to be on the table—it’s different every season. Listen for 
his clues. He knows what he’s doing. He’s going to do his best to guide 
you.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Thanks.” 

“Also,” she added, “if you want pants, you should probably stop 
bitching about not having them.” 

“So, it’s like I suspected,” I said. “The loot boxes aren’t really random.” 

“Of course not,” said Odette. “It’s even written into the rules. Look at 
me.” She floated back, holding out her arms. “I lost my legs to a Fiend 
Scythe on the eleventh floor. I was all but dead. I dragged myself to a safe 
room, opened my boxes, and I received this,” she poked a black belt around 
her waist, just above the line where her legs were gone. “In a gold box. This 
is a legendary item, at least. It allows me to attach body parts of other 
monsters to myself. I had to drag myself back out there and kill that crab 
first, but I took its body as my legs. And I continued on my way.” 

“Your legs don’t grow back?” Donut asked. 

“No,” Odette said. “Not if they’re completely severed off. But that’s not 
the point. People were watching me. I had five sponsors, a record at the 
time. Me dying alone in a safe room was not good for anyone involved. 
They didn’t care if I lived or died, as long as that death was glorious. So 
they gave me the perfect item to compel me to get my ass back out there 
and at least try. Yes, this is a game. Yes, there are controls in place to make 
it fair. Sort of. But more importantly, this is a for-profit venture in the 
entertainment industry. And if you staying alive means more profits, then 
you’ll find your loot to be a lot more convenient. But if the AI senses 
screwing you over will make the show more interesting, you better believe 
itll fuck you right in the ass at the worst possible moment. Don’t ever 
forget that. You can’t count on anybody but yourselves.” 

“So, no more complaining,” I said. “At least not out loud.” 

“Not when it’s funny for you to not have pants.” She turned to Donut. 
“Or when someone hisses every time they get another torch in one of their 
boxes.” 

Donut swished her tail angrily. “I have 230 torches in my inventory. It’s 
absolutely ridiculous.” 

“One last piece of advice,” Odette said. “Never trust someone unless 
you know what they’re getting out of it. Never trust someone if their 


motivations aren’t clear. Mordecai, for example. He won’t tell you this, but 
the season doesn’t count against his indentureship unless one of his 
crawlers makes it to the fourth floor.” 

“ we don’t make it, he’s stuck until next season?” I asked. So if 

“He’s stuck until the next Borant-sponsored season, which’Il be at least 
another seven or eight seasons after this one. And with the political 
environment as it is, a lot of people aren’t certain Borant will be around that 
long. All indentureship contracts get frozen during a bankruptcy seizure 
action.” 

“Wait, what?” I asked. 

She waved her hand. “That’s not something you need to worry 
yourselves over. Concentrate on the crawl.” 

Donut jumped down from the couch and ran to the far wall. She stopped 
about halfway across the room, her face smushing against an invisible 
barrier. It appeared the studio went deeper than it really did. She put her feet 
up on the invisible wall, making it look as if she was standing on two feet. 
“Carl, look,” she said. “This room is quite odd.” 

“Remember what Lexis said?” I called out to her. “We’re not really in 
the studio. That’s the far end of the boat. Be careful.” 

I turned back to Odette. “Whatever you guys did to her is wearing off,” 
I said. 

The woman nodded. She didn’t even deny it. She was also watching the 
cat pounce around the end of the room. “In many ways, she’s still a child. 
It’s part of the reason why so many are enchanted with her. It works well in 
the dungeon. But for interviews, sometimes they need a little nudge.” 

I bit my lip. I didn’t know if I should be angry or not. “What did you 
do?” 

She shrugged. “It’s nothing insidious. It was in her cat treats. It’s 
temporary. It increased her wisdom and a few confidence stats by a point 
and a half. Not much. It makes for a better interview. It’s no different than 
drinking a glass of strong wine.” 

“I thought wisdom wasn’t a stat anymore,” I said. 

“Oh, honey. Everything is a stat. Just because you can’t see it doesn’t 
mean it’s not really there. But you’re more right than you realize. None of 
these top-tier stats you see are real. Not truly. A higher intelligence doesn’t 
mean you’re smarter. It means you have more mana points. It means you 


can remember things better. It’s really a mish-mash of a hundred other stats 
all combined.” 

Donut came back, her tail swishing. “This room is much smaller than it 
looks.” 

“So how about you, Odette? What are your motivations?” I asked as I 
stood from the couch. It was time to go. “For helping us, I mean. You said 
not to trust anyone until you know what their motivations are.” 

The older woman smiled. “My audience loves you. The longer you stay 
alive, the more money I make. And there is nothing I love in this universe 
more than money. Now get back in there and try not to die.” 


OceanofPDE:.com 


Floor Two 
Views: 0 
Followers: 0 
Favorites: 0 


“THERE'S NOBODY ON MY LIST,” DONUT SAID. “I DON’T HAVE ANY 
followers yet.” 

We’d been on the second floor for about five seconds. Thankfully, 
Brandon and his crew hadn’t come down yet. We still had two hours until 
the collapse, and I suspected they were waiting to see if Chris could 
convince the thirty folks holed up in that Waffle House to come down. I 
wouldn’t expect to see the first ones emerge for another hour. 

“I don’t think it gets turned on until after the recap episode,” I said. 
“And Mordecai said it updates slow anyway.” Tonight’s episode coincided 
with the closing of the first floor. I was hoping we could find a safe room 
before then. 

The episode was usually a little more than an hour long, and after that, 
Odette’s show would air. And if that show was as popular as they’d implied, 
the views would start rolling in. I knew, deep down, that this was probably a 
good thing. The more fans, the better chances we had. But I still had a 
terrible, ominous feeling that all this attention was a mistake. There was 


something to be said about being anonymous. Quietly efficient. That wasn’t 
going to happen, not here, not when I had Donut with me. 

Looking about, this second floor was set up similarly to the first, but 
instead of emerging at the end of a main hallway, I could see that we were 
in the middle of a quadrant. The floors here were white. The lichen on the 
wall had an orangish tint to it. The walls, instead of stone, were made of 
cinderblock. I punched the wall with my gauntlet to see if it would break. A 
large crack appeared, but it wouldn't break further, like it was magically 
protected. I punched another nearby block, and the same thing happened. It 
cracked easily, but it didn't break more than that. 

“Well this is boring. How are we supposed to set the intergalactic 
internet on fire when the second floor is the same as the first floor?” Donut 
asked. 

“Mordecai had said that would be the case. It’s not until the third or 
fourth floor where things start to get weird.” 

“Hopefully the monsters will be more exciting,” Donut said. 

“They’ Il be similar. Just a little harder.” 

“Look, look,” Donut said. “When you zoom out the map, top right 
corner. Northeast.” 

I did, and immediately saw what she was looking at. The icon sat in the 
midst of the fog, but there it was. An overwhelming sense of relief washed 
over me. I didn’t see any safe rooms or tutorial guilds yet, but at least we 
had this. 

Stairwell to Floor Three. 

“Let’s work our way toward there and see about clearing that quadrant 
out,” I said. “Keep an eye open for safe rooms.” 

I saw the X on the map the moment we turned the comer. My heart 
leaped, afraid that this was going to be the corpse of Agatha. But it was a 
smaller X. One of a mob. 

I hovered over the spot, and it read Corpse — Level 2 Brindle Grub. 

“Level two. That’s good. I wonder if Agatha killed it?” I said. We 
wouldn’t be able to tell until we were closer. A few more steps, and a pair of 
red dots appeared in the same hallway, between us and the body. They 
seemed to also be moving toward the corpse. 

“Okay, be careful,” I whispered. I peeked around the corner. There the 
mobs were, a pair of fuzzy, cat-sized monsters with no legs. Bugs with 
similar black and brown coloring to Donut. These were large, fat worms. 


They didn’t appear to be moving too quickly, also level two. They were the 
same type of creature as the corpse. 

Brindle Grub. Level 2. 

Have you ever found a dead, bloated, and decomposing body? Have 
ya poked it with a stick just to see what would wiggle out? Perhaps 
rubbed it with your bare foot? You know you’ve wanted to. Well, 
wonder more. Here on the second floor, rats are yesterday’s news. 
Brindle Grubs are now all the rage, and janitor duty falls unto them. 
The more monsters you kill in an area, the more the grubs eat. The 
more the grubs eat, the bigger they get. Once you start finding them in 
the pupa stage, you best move on. Grubs are easy to kill. Their older 
siblings are not. 

“You take the left one. I’ll get the second,” I said as Donut jumped to 
my shoulder. 

We strode around the corner. Donut blasted the first one with a full- 
power Magic Missile, and the thing exploded, leaving nothing but a white 
mess of goo. They had the same sort of squishy innards as the scatterer bugs 
from the first floor. 

“Get ready with a healing scroll in case their blood is acid or 
something,” I said. 

I formed a fist, rushing up. The second grub was making a pitiful 
squeaking noise, trying to get away at a turtle’s pace. I smashed down with 
my gauntlet. It was like punching pudding. A toddler could kill these things. 

The bug goo didn’t appear to be toxic. The bugs didn’t offer any 
discernible experience, either. These seemed to be much less dangerous 
than the rats. I wondered what sort of monster they turned into. 

We moved to examine the smushed remains of the third corpse. It was 
as I suspected. 

Lootable Corpse. Brindle Grub. Level 2. Killed by Crawler Agatha. 

Vial of Brindle Grub Hemolymph. (Alchemy Material.) 

It looked as if she’d run over the thing with her shopping cart. It took 
about ten minutes before a corpse became lootable by other crawlers, and 
that was the only indication of how long ago this had been. Her head start 
was several hours by now thanks to our interlude on the surface. I took the 
vial. 

Donut jumped down and sniffed at the corpse. She made a disgusted 
face. “Repulsive. I see a couple more red dots one hallway over.” 


I looked at my map, and the red dots weren’t there. A blink, and then 
they appeared. I’d been noticing that recently, that Donut could sense active 
monsters a few moments before I could. I suspected it had something to do 
with her race, but I wasn’t certain. These dots were moving quickly down 
the adjacent hallway. 

“Those aren’t grubs. If the bugs are like the rats, then we haven’t yet 
met the mobs of this quadrant.” I took my foot, and I smashed down on the 
remains of the corpse that Agatha had killed. I smashed and crushed, 
smearing the innards all over the place until the X disappeared on the map. 

“Carl,” Donut said, looking between me and the splattered remains. 
“Are you quite all right?” 

“Did you read that description of the grubs?” I said as I wiped my foot 
on a cinderblock. I could barely feel the bottom of my soles. The sides of 
my foot were still as sensitive as ever. “We can’t just leave corpses lying 
around. Even their own corpses. Not in this part of the dungeon. From now 
on, we do our best to leave as little behind as possible.” 

She crinkled her nose. “I don’t feel as if that’s an efficient use of our 
time. My people aren’t going to enjoy watching me desecrate the dead. This 
is just revolting. I’d much rather you not do this.” 

“Your people aren’t going to enjoy watching you get killed by whatever 
these things grow up to be.” 

We continued down the hall, turning a junction, then another, angling 
toward the other red dots. These guys were moving in what looked like a 
patrol pattern. I suspected if we continued further in that direction we’d find 
their base and the neighborhood boss. That wasn’t something I wanted to 
tackle just yet. 

“Let’s go get these things already. It’s taking much too long,” Donut 
said, hopping up and down. With her collar charm and crupper, she sounded 
like a bell. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. “You’re a cat. You need to work on your 
stealth.” 

The creatures paused, then they both stopped in the hallway and started 
moving quickly in our direction. 

“See?” I said. “We need to see what the mobs are before we force 
confrontations.” 

I stepped out, waiting for them to round the corner. Donut returned to 
my shoulder. 


She was starting to reply to me, but she squealed in anger the moment 
the mobs appeared. She dug her paws painfully into my shoulder as she 
tensed. She fired off two rapid-succession missiles. Both of the creatures hit 
the ground, their health moving into the red. Barely. They got up and 
continued toward us snarling and snapping. 

And barking. 

The AI approximated a terrible Australian accent. 

Danger Dingo. Level 5. 

These aren’t the cute, cuddly, baby-eating puppies from the land 
down under. No, mate. The Danger Dingo features a stronger body, 
sharper teeth, and a penchant for black metal bands such as Dimmu 
Borgir and Satyricon. Where there are dingoes, their Kobold riders 
and slave masters usually aren’t far behind. 

“Die!” Donut screamed, shooting two more missiles. Both of the 
monsters fell over, dead and steaming. She’d used 24 of her 26 mana points 
in seconds. She sat on my shoulder, breathing heavily. 

“So,” I said, looking down at the corpses that continued their forward 
trajectory, sliding to a stop at our feet. “Not a fan of dogs, are we?” These 
guys didn’t look much like regular dingoes. First off, they were huge, about 
the size of mastiffs. They each had a fur pattern on their faces that looked 
like heavy metal corpse paint. Their fangs were absurdly long and sharp, 
giving them an almost prehistoric look. Both dropped “Poor Dingo Pelts” 
which Donut looted. 

One of them also dropped something we hadn’t seen yet. A pair of gold 
coins. Donut snatched them away before I could examine the money’s 
properties. 

“I must admit, I did get a little carried away there,” Donut said. With a 
swipe of her claw, she ripped the dingo’s head right off. She kicked it, and 
the head exploded against the wall. Once again, the corpses on this level 
were significantly more fragile once they died. I watched as she gingerly 
and matter-of-factly tore the corpses to shreds, careful not to get any gore 
on herself. She kept saying “Ew, ew, gross, ew,” as she did it. She wasn’t 
quite successful keeping the blood off of her, and by the time she was done, 
both her forward legs were soaked red. 

“What happened to not wanting to desecrate a corpse?” 

“Cocker spaniels deserve to have their corpses desecrated.” 


“Those aren't...” I stopped myself. I wasn’t going to argue with her. She 
knew perfectly well these weren’t cocker spaniels. She was just playing for 
the camera. 

“Let’s back out of this area for now.” I indicated the curved hallway. I 
could see a few larger rooms ahead, and I suspected we’d be knee-deep in 
dingoes and kobolds if we went further. 

As we approached the main hallway, I didn’t see any further signs of the 
dingo mobs, but we did find a couple more dead grubs. And plenty more 
living ones. The things were everywhere, and we had to kill them by the 
dozens. 

“There’s a safe room,” Donut said. “It’s right off the hallway.” 

I looked, and she was right. It was in the wrong direction from the 
stairwell, but it was close. 

We headed that way, edging into another quadrant. This one was filled 
with floating brains with tentacles tangling under them. They looked like 
jellyfish. They were called “Mind Horrors,” and were all level four. They 
used something called a psionic attack. Donut wasn’t affected at all by 
them, but I was. I could feel them before I saw them, their presence causing 
an almost debilitating headache. But they were physically weak, and they 
moved slowly, like little miniature blimps. I could punch them out of the 
sky before their mental attacks lowered my health more than a few points. 
Their brain-shaped bodies had the consistency of a jam-filled kickball. They 
bounced when they hit the ground, sometimes splattering. 

I didn’t want to go further into this neighborhood, but we cleared the 
way to the safe room. 

The room, unfortunately, wasn’t one of the restaurants with a Bopca 
Protector, though the chamber itself was much bigger than any other safe 
room I’d seen. It appeared to be some sort of storm shelter. The signs on the 
doors for the restrooms were in French. The television screens were 
attached to the walls on one end of the cavernous room. About fifty dusty 
cots were pushed up against another wall. There was no food, no cookies, 
no vending machines. Just bathrooms, showers, and sinks. 

But there was something I’d never seen before. A mailbox, attached to a 
pole in the ground near the wall with the televisions. It was a standard black 
mailbox with a little red flag, the kind someone out in the suburbs would 
have in front of their house. I immediately moved to the box and tried to 
open the little door, but I received an error message. 


Why would someone send you mail? 

“Weird,” I said. 

The number of boxes and achievements we’d received was less than 
usual, but I still had quite a few. Several of my battle stats had also ticked 
up. I sat down on one of the cots and examined my achievements as Donut 
did the same. 


New achievement! Borough Boss! 

So, you’ve stumbled into the chamber of the second-weakest type of 
boss. If you survive this, it means you are in the top 5% of all crawlers. 
Too bad only the top .25% make it past the next tier. 

Reward: Yeah, no. 


New achievement! Bully and a Thief! 

You’ve stolen property from a fellow crawler who is a lower level 
than you. What’s next, tough guy? Kicking puppies? 

Reward: You’ve received a Bronze Asshole’s Box. 


That one confused me for a moment until I realized Pd gotten it for taking 
Agatha’s shopping cart. 


New achievement! Battlefield Construction! 

You built a structure and deployed it in battle. And your mother 
thought you were wasting your life away while you spent all those 
hours eating Doritos and playing Minecraft. If only she could see you 
now. Too bad she’s probably dead. 

Reward: You’ve received a Silver Mechanic’s Box! 


For this next one, the AI once again used his sexy voice. I cringed. 


New achievement! This Little Piggy Went to Market! 
Oh yeah, baby. You have killed more than five opponents during 
boss battles using your bare feet. You are making daddy very, very 


happy. 
Reward: You’ve received a Platinum Shoe Box. 


“What the fuck, dude,” I muttered at the ceiling. I shuddered. I eyed Donut, 
who was already opening her boxes. I wasn’t going to tell her about this 
one. Still, a platinum box? That almost made it worth it. Almost. I couldn’t 
wait to see what was in the “random” loot box. 

A few more achievements popped up, all concerning us defeating the 
boss. Killing a borough boss. Killing a borough boss with a mixed group. 
Killing a borough boss in under 10 minutes. Killing a borough boss with 
more than 10 minions. None of the achievements offered any good loot 
except the silver boss box. After that, there was only one achievement left: 


New achievement! You found stairs! 

You have found a stairwell down to the next floor. They say the 
cream rises to the top. So what does that say about you? 

Reward: This barely qualifies as an achievement. Your reward is 
that you’re alive to read this. 


Next, I moved to loot boxes. The items appeared one by one, rapidly 
appearing and disappearing into my virtual bag. I went into my inventory, 
selected the New tab, and inspected the items one at a time. 

The asshole box bestowed five gold pieces and three little pieces of 
paper. Drink Ticket (X3) — Desperado Club. When I examined the little 
red paper, all it said was Redeem at the Desperado Club for a free 
“drink.” I stared dubiously at the quotation marks around “drink.” 

The silver mechanics box contained a really interesting item. A tool. I 
pulled it out of my inventory and examined it. It looked like a silver, 
oversized lollipop with a button on the handle. 

The Goo-Inator 3000. 


This is a shaping tool. May only be used at a workbench. Assists in 
shaping materials into something else. You might want to keep the 
business end away from your face. 

That sounded pretty cool, but I wouldn’t be able to use it until I bought 
a personal space, which I couldn’t do until the fourth floor. For now it 
would have to sit in my inventory and wait. 

Next up was the prize from the silver boss box. I’d received 100 gold 
coins and a potion. 

Cheat Code Potion 

Warning: This item has a short shelf life. 

This item will expire shortly after it was generated. In other words, 
this isn’t something you can hoard. Don’t be a wuss. Drink it now. 

Causes one, recently-used combat or magic-themed skill to increase 
by three. Choice is random and permanent. 

A red, flashing timer appeared at the bottom of the description. It was 
down to 17 minutes and counting. Shit. I added it to my hotlist and drank. 

I felt a crackling sensation in my mouth, like I’d just downed a whole 
packet of Pop Rocks. 

Your Pugilism Skill has been increased by 3! Your Pugilism Skill is 
now level 10. 

Damn. I had a pile of bonuses now, all relating to unarmed combat. 
With the combination of my Iron Punch and Powerful Strike skills, plus my 
unarmed combat bonus and my pugilism skill, my fists packed just as much 
damage as Brandon’s lightning maul. I knew the skill levels would come 
more slowly now, but I could probably punch a steel beam and put a dent in 
it. 

At the same time, I knew my progress wasn’t anything special. Not 
compared to some of the others from the last recap episode. That Lucia Mar 
kid was completely decked out in magical gear. She had an obvious 
dexterity bonus. The kid was running on walls and doing flips and shit 
already, splattering monsters with her mace. The crossbow woman with the 
Valkyrie helmet was also crazy strong, likely twice as powerful as me. I’d 
watched in awe as she picked up a bear-sized, slobbering tentacle monster 
and threw it into the air, shooting it twice with her repeating crossbow 
before it exploded. 

They were giving us these incredible upgrades, but I also knew the 
monsters were going to keep pace with our progress. And while I felt 


overpowered, a part of me feared I was actually falling behind. 

I had one last item to examine. “Goddamnit,” I muttered under my 
breath. I pulled it into my hand and examined its properties. It was a little 
black folder with a zipper. I zipped it open, revealing multiple, miniature 
tools. 

Enchanted Pedicure Kit of the Sylph. 

This kit contains 12 essential items for proper foot care. 

The magical enhancements of this item may only be imbued within 
a Safe or Personal Space. 

Warning: All of these enhancements require you to remain 
barefoot. 

Why? Because you know why. 

From a pumice stone to a cuticle pusher, this personal hygiene kit 
will keep your feet both luscious and in perfect fighting shape. Nightly 
care of your feet and toenails will result in the following bonuses: 

+15% Damage to bare-foot attacks for 30 hours. 

+3 to the Smush skill for 30 hours. 

+Unbreakable buff (feet only) for 30 hours. This buff keeps your 
pretty little metatarsals nice and unbroken. 

+Celestially Nimble and Tidy buff (feet only) for 30 hours. Not only 
will your tootsies look nice, bright, and shiny, but any traps set off by 
footfalls will now prompt an alarm and have a 5-second delay before 
being triggered. 

I sighed. That very last buff was a great prize. Other than the goblin 
dozer, we hadn’t dealt with any traps yet. Mordecai had mentioned them, 
but I didn’t know when they would start showing up. We were going to 
need more than just a five-second warning, but this was better than nothing. 

I looked at the kit dubiously before shoving it back into the inventory. I 
had no idea what most of those little metal items did. Would I have to use 
all of them to turn the enhancements on? How long would it take? Beatrice 
could literally spend hours in the bathroom poking, prodding, and plucking 
at herself. Donut usually sat on the counter in the bathroom with her, 
meowing for attention. Which meant Donut had watched her do it a number 
of times. I was going to have to ask the cat if she knew how to use the 
items. Shit. 

I watched as Donut trotted over to the mailbox, leap so she was standing 
on top of it, and then sit down as the front of the box opened up on its own. 


A tome floated out and hovered before her. It vanished as she added it to her 
inventory. 

“What the hell was that?” I asked. 

She poofed her chest out. “Thanks to that boss box, I am now a member 
of the Dungeon Book of the Floor Club. I get one spellbook per level, 
which is mailed to me.” 

“What? Really? That’s way better than what I received. What book did 
you get?” 

Instead of answering me, her body flashed with light. She’d read the 
book, giving herself the spell. 

“Ew,” she said after a moment. “What an awful spell. We really need to 
save these book things instead of wasting them.” 

“Goddamnit, Do...” I caught myself. “You know this. You have to read 
the description before applying it to yourself. What is the spell? What does 
it do?” 

I couldn’t examine her spells, so I had to rely on what she told me. I 
knew she had four spells, not including this new one. She had the heal spell 
everyone started with, Torch, Magic Missile, and Puddle Jumper, which 
she’d only tried once. She also had a tome of Minion Army she couldn’t yet 
read, and I had that tome of Wisp Armor. 

“It’s called Second Chance. It costs 10 mana to cast. I can raise a 
monster from the dead. It has to be a lower level than me. They will fight 
for us for as many minutes as the spell’s level. The level is one, so it’ll only 
last for a minute.” 

“Holy crap,” I said. “That’s badass. It’s a necromancy spell!” 

“Its disgusting,’ Donut said. She shuddered. “The dead are gross 
enough. It’s much worse when they’re moving around. It probably groans 
and stuff, too. You know how I feel about groaning.” 

I had a quick memory of being slashed at once while Bea and I were 
getting busy. It wasn’t very funny at the time, but we’d laughed about it 
later. Donut had gotten banned from the bedroom during sexy time after 
that. She’d howl at the door, and we’d have to put music on to drown her 
out. 

“Whatever happened to killing them with style?” I said, trying not to 
laugh. 

“One doesn’t have to resort to gore-themed violence in order to be 
stylish.” 


“Yeah,” I said. “But imagine raising one of those dingoes back from the 
dead and using it to kill another dingo. And then raising that one too. You’d 
be like the Lucia Mar kid with her two dogs, but yours will be zombie 
dogs.” 

Her eyes got huge. “This is the best spell ever.” 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 31] 


BRANDON AND CREW WERE STILL BRINGING PEOPLE INTO THE SAFE ROOM AS 
the next episode premiered. 

Right when the show started, the timer finally ran out. The world 
rumbled, and the ground under my feet shook. The shaking lasted but a 
second. I stopped and gazed at the number on the television screen. It 
flashed, going from just over two million to 1,292,526. 

More people had made it down to the next level than I expected. Still, 
those numbers. Those goddamned numbers. I wished we didn’t have to look 
at them. In that brief moment, as I helped push a woman—her name was 
Elle McGibbons—in a wheelchair into the storm shelter, over 700,000 
people died. A third of the remaining crawlers. The first floor had claimed a 
little more than 10 million people. 

“Thank you, honey,” the woman said as I rolled her to the others. “Can 
you put Divorce Court on the television? My Barry used to watch that 
show. It reminds me of him.” 

“I don’t think that show is on anymore, Mrs. McGibbons,” I said. 

“That’s okay,” she said. 

Above the number with the remaining crawlers, the countdown to level 
collapse blinked a few times then reset. Six days and counting. 

“Six days?” Brandon said, coming to stand beside me. “Mistress Tiatha 
had said it would be ten.” 

“Yeah, our guy said the same thing,” I said. “At least we know where 
the stairs are this time.” 

As the scenes of carnage played out on the television—they were 
showing a man and a woman running from a three-headed baboon—I took 


stock of the room. 

We’d only gained six more residents from the Waffle House safe room, 
meaning 24 of them had elected to stay behind. I thought about that for a 
moment. Good for them, I decided. They’d gained a measure of control in 
those last few moments. They went out on their own terms. Brandon said 
they’d all been singing when he’d last seen them. 

Agatha remained missing. Chris sat in the comer, his head low. He 
might’ve been crying. I wanted to give the man space. Imani and Yolanda 
worked their way around the residents. Yolanda helped them to the 
bathrooms while Imani handed out crawler biscuits. 

Donut paced the floor in front of the television screen, waiting for the 
second half of the program. We wouldn’t be able to watch Odette’s show, 
and we still didn’t know if we’d get any airtime on the main program. 

“After everyone sleeps, I was hoping to get your help with something,” 
Brandon said. 

I already knew what he was going to ask. 

“You’re going to send them all down the stairs to the third floor early.” 

“Yes,” he said. “They can’t train, so there’s no point in keeping them 
here.” 

“What about you?” I asked. “Your levels need work.” 

He shook his head. “We talked about it. All of us are going to go down. 
We’ll take our chances on the third floor. We don’t want to risk getting 
Separated.” 

On the screen, a woman screamed as her arm was bitten off by a 
monster that looked like an eggplant with teeth. 

“We’ll scout the way and clear it out for you,” I said. 

“Thank you,” Brandon said. 

“Did you get anything good in your boss box?” I asked. He now had a 
bright, silver star next to his name in the interface, along with the rest of us. 

He grinned. “I got a magic boomerang. Chris got some book of the club 
thing. Imani doesn’t tell us what she gets, and Yolanda received a new type 
of quiver.” 

“There’s something I’ve been wanting to ask you about Agatha,” I said. 

“Everyone, quiet! Quiet!” Donut called. “It’s time for the good part!” 

The screen focused on that group of men from Africa. Their party name 
was “Le Mouvement.” They’d gone from 150 to about 80 after some 
internal strife. Several of the members sported skulls by their avatars now. 


The show had helpfully added a graphic showing how much 
ammunition they had left. The 80 men were down to under 500 rounds. 
Hopefully they were training themselves in other weapon types. 

Lucia Mar and her dogs obliterated a nest of brown, shaggy monsters 
before descending the stairs. I knew right afterward she’d been whisked 
away to appear on Odette’s show. She’d been on stage just before us, where 
one of her dogs had attacked a producer. The woman with the Valkyrie 
helmet had teamed up with a group of three more women. They worked 
together to kill a yeti borough boss thing before using the stairs to descend. 

And just like that, there we were. 

Beside me, Donut gasped as we appeared. We were on screen for less 
than 15 seconds. The program was playing scenes from multiple groups of 
crawlers, rapid-fire, all of them fighting bosses or running toward the stairs 
as the timer ran down. I knew some of these scenes must have played out 
just thirty minutes earlier. 

It showed us huddled underneath the redoubt as Donut screamed, “Here 
it comes!” 

The view changed to the ball of swine rolling up the ramp, getting 
stuck. It moved back inside our miniature fort as the brace broke and 
smashed Yolanda in the head. It showed the ball break apart, and then it cut 
to Donut screaming as she fired magic missiles point-blank into the 
tusklings. It ended with Imani making a sour face as she dropped the strap- 
on dildo on the floor. 

All of our mugshots appeared. A moment, later, the show moved onto 
another group. 

“They didn’t put Agatha’s picture on the screen,” Yolanda said. “Does 
that mean she’s dead?” 

“I think that’s exactly what it means,” I said, my voice grim. There was 
no way the crazy old woman could survive down here on her own. Nobody 
had said it out loud yet, but we were all thinking it. 

“Wait,” Chris said. Brandon’s older brother had a deeper voice, and it 
surprised me when he spoke. This was only the second time I’d heard him 
speak. “There’s more to it. She was edited out of the scene. She was next to 
me under the speedbump, but she wasn’t there when they showed it.” 

“Oh yeah,” Brandon said. “Weird.” 

“What does that mean?” Yolanda asked. 

“Who the hell knows?” I said. 


Donut was ignoring all of this as she hopped up and down. “Two shows 
in one day, Carl. Two shows! Maybe there is more, too. Do you think we’re 
on more shows?” 

I sighed. “Donut. You need to stop obsessing over this. It’s dangerous. 
It’s going to get us killed.” 

“Pm not obsessing,” she said. “What makes you think I’ve been 
obsessing?” 

“People like you because of what you’ve been doing,” I said. “If you 
start playing for the camera, they’re going to like you less. And if you die, 
you won’t be remembered at all. So try not to think about it.” 

“I don’t know what you’re talking about, Carl,” she said. 

The show wrapped up. And a moment later, the announcement rattled 
through the storm shelter. 

Hello crawlers. 

Welcome to the second floor. Congratulations to all of you. We have 
just under 1.3 million crawlers still in the game. That number is slightly 
lower than our projections, so we are speeding up the second floor 
timer to the minimum legally allowed by the rules. You have six days to 
find a staircase down. Once again, we urge you all to wait until the last 
possible moment to descend. 

As soon as this announcement ends, you will find that follows and 
favorites will be turned on for our viewers. The numbers will populate 
slowly on your interface, so don’t be too disappointed if you don’t see 
anything just yet. 

We have improved how patronage works this season. This is a 
major change, so please pay attention. 

All crawlers are now limited to three patrons, and all three spots 
will be up for auction for one day immediately upon the induction of 
the fourth floor, then fifth, then sixth floors respectively. Your 
benefactors may so choose to transfer their patronage to other parties 
at their own discretion starting on the seventh floor. 

All patronage spots will become available at a bid of one credit, 
meaning this season virtually all living crawlers will have patrons. 

But, be warned. Any bids the patron pays above the standard 
patronage fee will be reflected in loot box discounts for that patron. 
Any funds below the fee will be reflected in additional costs to that 
patron for loot boxes. In other words, the more your patron pays for 


you, the more and higher-quality Benefactor Boxes you may receive. 
The higher your social numbers, the better your chances at receiving 
the best loot. Your tutorial guide should have more details and will help 
you if you have any additional questions. 

Finally, we must say we are disappointed in the disrespect we are 
being shown regarding the bathrooms. As of this moment, if any 
human-born crawler intentionally urinates or defecates anywhere 
outside a designated bathroom area, they will be immediately and 
swiftly penalized in the form of a Rage Elemental plucked from the 
13th floor. This elemental will kill them and everyone in their party 
before they can get their pants back up. 

That’s it for tonight. Have fun out there, and remember to kill, kill, 
kill! 

Brandon turned to Yolanda. “You better tell Jack not to pee in the 
hallways anymore.” 

Yolanda had gone pale. I hadn’t even realized that this was a problem. 
Jack was one of the guys who used a walker, not a wheelchair. He wore a 
Cincinnati Bengals hat and was always poking at the female residents, 
saying, “You still alive, Marybeth?” None of them were named Marybeth. 

“I have a few adult pads left. PII make sure he puts one on,” Yolanda 
said. 

“Their reasoning for speeding it up doesn’t make any sense,” Imani 
said. 

I nodded, agreeing. “If anything, it seems like they’re trying to get rid of 
us faster.” 

“Carl, Carl! I have a follower! My first follower!” Donut cried. 
“Another! A view! I have a view!” 

“Yeah,” I said. “You know that viewer is watching you right now. So 
maybe you should stop acting crazy. We talked about this.” 

Donut stiffened, her eyes going wide. “You’re right,” she said. She sat 
down and licked her paw, suddenly looking nonchalant. “That was quite the 
battle today, don’t you think, Carl?” 

She said this in a weird, stilted, I’m-trying-to-act-casual-but-I’m-not- 
very-good-at-it voice. 

I sighed, and it took everything not to say my catchphrase out loud. 
She’s going to get used to it. It’s new, so you gotta give her time. After 


Odette’s show finished airing, I knew those numbers were going to 
skyrocket. 
This was going to be a long night. 


OceanofPDE:com 


Time to Collapse: Five days, ten hours 


Views: 69 Billion 
Followers: 635 Million 
Favorites: 149 Million 


AS WE APPROACHED THE QUADRANT WITH THE STAIRWELL, WE COULD NOW 
see that there was a tutorial guild and another saferoom just beyond the 
stairs. The plan was to probe the monsters, see how difficult they were. If it 
was something we could handle, we’d clear them out. Once we found the 
boss room, we’d make a judgment call on how to proceed. After that, we’d 
escort team Meadow Lark into the stairwell. 

We’d gone to sleep and woken up with our social numbers in the 
stratosphere. Donut’s views and follows were about equal with my own, but 
her favorites were twice as high. It made sense. Mordecai had said people 
only got a limited number of favorites to use, and Donut was the more 
entertaining member of our duo. I was okay with that. 

I tried not to think about it. We had important work to do today. Even 
Donut, thankfully, began to pay attention to the task at hand as we saw the 
first few red dots appear on our map. She’d been saying some motivational 
bullshit about seizing the day and fighting for the honor of our elders, but I 


think even she realized she was being annoying. A couple followers had 
ticked away, and you’d have thought that someone had stabbed her in the 
face with the way she’d reacted. 

The dots were just off the main thoroughfare. The main arteries on this 
floor weren’t as wide as they’d been one floor up, and the ground was less 
even. Within the actual quadrants, we had to watch our step. The concrete 
floor was cracked and splintered. Little sharp rocks were everywhere. 

I kicked a rock away. Below, my shiny toes glittered. I’d tried to get 
Donut to show me how to use the pedicure kit, and she’d laughed at me. It 
was Imani, of all people, who’d sat down with me. The stoic nurse pulled 
the tools out one at a time, matter-of-factly explaining how they worked. 

The buffs all activated after about fifteen minutes of work. I didn’t need 
to use all the items. I just had to make a show of it. But now my feet 
glittered, and while the sensation wasn’t any different than it had been 
before, I could sense the unbreakable aspect of my foot bones. I knew if I 
dropped a boulder on my toes, they wouldn’t splinter. It’d still hurt, but 
they’d remain intact and unscarred and as pretty as ever for the psychotic 
Al. 

I peered around the corner at the monsters. There were three of them 
sitting in a wide room lit by torches. They sat in a circle, playing dice. They 
were small, troll-like humanoids with oversized heads. Each had hook 
noses, ruddy cheeks, and mouths with only a few teeth. They wore tattered 
green overalls covered in patches. Each had pilgrim style, buckled shoes. 
Much too small for me. 

If it wasn’t for their mottled skin and curly black hair, I’d think they 
were a type of goblin. All three of them had runny noses. They coughed and 
sneezed and snorted and rubbed their sleeves with their arms as they played 
their game. 

All three of them had slingshots on their laps. Ranged weapons. I didn’t 
like ranged weapons. 

Unvaccinated Clurichaun Rev-Up Consultant — Level 3 

If you hear banjo music, run. 

Clurichauns are distant, hillbilly relatives of the Leprechauns. And 
while the Leprechauns are said to guard vast piles of gold, the only 
thing Clurichauns might hoard are Polaroids of their own sisters sitting 
on the can and questionable business schemes. This particular sect is of 
the unvaccinated variety. Don’t let them sneeze on you. 


WARNING: This is a fairy-class mob. Mobs of this class inflict 20% 
more damage against you due to your goblin pass. 

I eased back around the comer. 

“Man, I really wish we could figure out a way to turn their dots white. 
Then we could use your charm skill.” 

“Do they have wings? My butterfly collar charm causes winged fairies 
to like me.” 

“I don’t think they do,” I said. 

“Maybe if we capture one, we can talk to it,” Donut said. 

“Pd say that’s a good idea,” I said. “But not with these guys. We need to 
kill them from a distance. They’re toxic. Pm pretty sure they inflict 
something like your sepsis debuff on us. Let’s try hitting them with three 
magic missiles, super quick. Do a four power for each one and see what 
happens. If they don’t go down, hit them again.” 

Donut nodded and jumped to my shoulder. “Ready,” she said, all 
business. 

We popped around the corner. Thwap, thwap, thwap. 

Donut struck each one with a headshot. They didn’t even know what hit 
them. They died where they sat. 

“How many mana points do you have left?” 

“Fourteen,” Donut said. 

“Do you want to try your new Second Chance spell? It costs ten, right?” 

I didn’t have to ask her twice. Donut’s whole body glowed a neon 
purple. A moment later, one of the clurichauns twitched. It glowed purple, 
matching Donut’s hue. It stumbled to its feet and just stood there, its 
scorched and blown-in head listing to the side. A moan emanated from its 
wet, snotty mouth. On my shoulder, Donut shuddered. A one-minute timer 
hovered over the undead creature. A clear liquid oozed out of the hole in its 
head. It moaned again, this time louder. 

Undead Minion of Crawler Princess Donut -— Unvaccinated 
Clurichaun Consultant — Level 1 

It continued to sway, not moving from that spot. 

“This is most unpleasant,” Donut said. She made a sound like she was 
going to retch. “I do not like this, Carl.” 

“I wonder if they’ll always be level one,” I said, fascinated. “Can you 
control it?” 


“I don’t know,” Donut said hesitantly. “I don’t have any sort of 
controls.” She made a kind of uncomfortable whimpering noise, something 
I’d never heard from her before. “You,” she said, calling to the zombie. It 
didn’t seem to react. “Rip up the dead bodies of your friends.” 

It swayed there for another moment. The countdown was down to 25 
seconds. Then it went to its knees and started taking apart one of his 
companions. It reached into the stomach and just yanked a line of intestines 
out like a magician pulling streamers from a hat. They just kept coming and 
coming. The zombie groaned with an almost sexual pleasure. I felt a twinge 
of sickness gurgle in my own stomach. 

“Yeah, that’s really gross,” I said. 

The zombie clattered over, dead once again a few short seconds later. 
It'd left its job unfinished. 

I eyed the remains dubiously. I knew we needed to destroy the corpses, 
but there were only so many ways the game could warn me that these guys 
were toxic. I didn’t even know if getting close enough to loot them was a 
good idea. 

Before I could protest, Donut jumped down and looted them anyway. As 
a quadruped, she could pull the loose, non-slotted items like the slingshots 
and the dice into her own inventory without actually touching them as long 
as they weren’t too heavy or too far. I had to physically pick them up, which 
meant getting close to the contaminated bodies. 

“Each of them has a clay jug of something called toilet-grade 
moonshine,” Donut said. 

“They’re like the llamas,” I said. “They probably sell the stuff to the 
other mobs.” 

We decided to forgo destroying the corpses for now. We’d angle back on 
our way out and kill any grubs skulking around the area. I contemplated just 
blowing the bodies up, but that seemed like a waste of perfectly good 
explosives. I could probably concoct something that would burn them. I had 
gallons and gallons of flammable liquid. Their moonshine would probably 
work, too. But it would take some thinking and trial and error. I really 
needed to get my hands on something like a poleax I could use to chop 
things up from afar. 

“Did they have any slingshot ammo on them?” I asked as we crept 
deeper into the hallway. 

“Yeah. They have little bags of rocks,” Donut said. 


“Give me one of the slingshots and a couple bags. I want to try it out.” 

It look me about three seconds to realize I wasn’t going to be a deadly 
wielder of the slingshot any time soon. But I was going to practice. I needed 
some sort of ranged weapon, one a bit more subtle than my usual stick of 
dynamite. As a kid, I’d had a slingshot, and I’d been pretty good with it. I 
used to set toy cars up on the edge of the fence and try to hit them. 

The memory suddenly turned sour. I remembered my dad, finding my 
slingshot. He and his friends had played with it, breaking the band. He’d 
promised he’d get me a new one. He never did. 

For the next hour we cleared out all of the clurichauns along the outer 
ring of the quadrant. And by we, I mean Donut. So far, all we found were 
the level three version. After each skirmish, Donut would raise one of them 
from the dead, and I would practice hitting him with the slingshot. 

The weapon did hardly any damage at all, though I was getting good at 
consistently hitting the monsters in the head. My Slingshot skill eventually 
raised to three, but it didn’t want to budge past that. 

Donut’s skill in the Second Chance spell also rose to level three. The 
zombies weren’t any more powerful, but the monsters now hung around for 
three minutes instead of one. 

Donut looted something unusual from one of the bodies. A pamphlet 
entitled Rev-Up. Make Money. Be Your Own Boss. Move to the next 
floor down. It didn’t appear to be magical. It was just a regular, trifold 
pamphlet. 

“Let me see it,” I said. The colorful front showed a group of three, 
laughing, female clurichauns holding jugs of the moonshine. Several little 
phrases covered the pamphlet, written in Syndicate Standard. Things like 
“You’re the Boss Now” and “Your own hours” and “It’s not a pyramid!” 
and “Safe!*” 

Inside the pamphlet was a wall of text of mostly gibberish about the 
benefits of becoming a “Rev-Up Moonshine Consultant.” On the right was 
a picture of a pyramid with, “It’s not a pyramid!” written all over it. 

The bottom of the brochure stated, “See Krakaren or one of her 
downline consultants and learn how you can Rev-Up your life today!” On 
the back page it read, “Coming soon! Rev-Up Smoothies! Portable! 
Delicious! Invigorating!” The entire line was crossed out with 
“Discontinued” written under it. 


“Do you think we can become consultants?” Donut asked after she 
spent an inordinate amount of time reading the pamphlet. “It says as 
business owners we gain power over ourselves and can seize our own 
destinies.” 

“That doesn’t even mean anything,” I said. “They’re just making fun of 
pyramid schemes. You remember when Bea wanted to start selling those 
leggings? It’s like that.” The closet in Donut’s trophy room had been filled 
with boxes of the things. Donut had gotten into one of the boxes and peed 
in it. I smiled, remembering. Bea had raged at the poor cat. 

“Its not a pyramid, though. It says so right here.” 

“Come on,” I said. “These things are hostile toward us, so it wouldn’t 
work anyway. I think these pamphlets are for other mobs on this floor, not 
crawlers. Besides, we can just kill them and take it all for ourselves.” 

Donut put the pamphlet away. “Yeah, that does seem easier. We won’t 
have to pay our upline or make the initial seed investment when we do it 
that way.” 

As we finished our circle of the outer ring of the quadrant, I was forced 
to kill one of the clurichauns with a punch to the head. Donut missed a shot, 
and the little monster came running right at me, impossibly fast. It didn’t 
bother with its slingshot, opting to grapple. It gurgled, sounding pug-like, 
clawing at me with little, pocked hands. I formed a fist, but it happened too 
fast. My gauntlet took two seconds to form, which was a long time when 
one was having to react. My first, bare-knuckle hit stunned it. I hit it a 
second time, this time with the gauntlet, and the monster went flying, his 
head caved in. When I opened my hand, my fingers were covered with a 
lime green, oily residue. 

Warning: You’ve been infected with the Taint. 

“Fuck.” 

A blinking, five-minute timer appeared. In a panic, I pulled up my 
health screen to see what that was. 

The Taint. 

Having the Taint is like having the giggles. Or like having the time 
of your life. But instead of it being a good thing, you are balancing on 
the precipice of death. You may not heal your health using any method 
while you are inflicted with the Taint. 

Receiving the debuff scared the ever-loving crap out of me. I could deal 
with poison and several other attacks thanks to my armor, but we had no 


protection against this type of assault. Our heal spells, potions, and scrolls 
didn’t help. We needed something to ward off stuff like this. In those five 
seconds before I could read the description, I was genuinely scared I had 
received something that was going to kill me. 

On its own, the debuff wasn’t a big deal. I simply had to wait it out. I 
suspected it was part of a one/two punch. They first inflicted you with the 
taint, then they hit you with something else that seeped your health away. If 
that was the case, it didn’t matter if these guys were only level three. They 
were dangerous. 

“We’re not fucking around with these guys anymore,” I said. “Let me 
think a minute.” 

We’d collected 25 jugs of the moonshine. Donut gave me one, and I 
examined the large, clay container. 

Rev-Up Toilet-Grade Moonshine 

Type: Accelerant. 

Effect: Highly flammable liquid. Explosive fumes. 

Status: Will not activate until introduced to flame. 

At 180 proof, this moonshine will take the hair off your chest and 
then put it back on. The Rev-Up version is distilled using two types of 
sugars: the slime trails left behind by the passage of the Brindle Grub, 
and a secretive, proprietary source. Created exclusively on the 
dungeon’s second floor by the Rev-Up company, jugs of this concoction 
are highly sought after by the drinking establishments that populate 
the third, sixth, ninth, twelfth, fifteenth, and eighteenth floors. 
Drinking a swig (defined as 1.5 ounces) of this “potion” will 
immediately cause you to gain the Shit-Faced debuff, has a 50% chance 
to render you Blind for a period of 30 hours, a 5% chance to 
immediately kill you, and a 45% chance to permanently raise a random 
stat by two points. 

“It does say they’re valuable,” Donut said. “Do you think we can really 
sell them if we don’t become consultants?” 

“That’s what it sounds like,” I said. “Other than that tiara of yours, this 
is the first time we’ve really seen anything that clues us in about the deeper 
floors.” 

Donut indicated the tattoo of the dagger on my neck. “The Desperado 
Club,” she said. “Maybe it’ll be on the next floor. I bet they’ll buy them all 
from us because we’re members of the club! We’ll be rich!” 


> 


“Maybe,” I said. “We’ll see if we have any jugs left when we’re done.’ 
“What do you mean?” Donut asked. “What are we doing with them?” 
I grinned. “I don’t suppose you have any extra torches?” 


Carl’s Jug O’ Boom 

Type: Incendiary Tossable 

Effect: When lit and tossed, results in a small explosion, followed by 
burning splash damage over a wide area. Flames will burn for 15 
seconds per level of attacker’s level of Incendiary Device Handling. 

Status: Inert until torch is activated. 

Created by an unstable, pantsless man who talks to a cat, Carl’s Jug 
O’ Boom takes the bigger-is-better approach when it comes to 
hobgoblin fire bottles. Burns hotter, bigger, and faster than your 
normal Molotov Cocktail. The use of a standard torch instead of a cloth 
wick makes these devices much more stable. Just don’t drop it once it’s 
lit, lest you find yourself doing a Joan of Arc impersonation. 

I received a host of achievements after I finished the bottle. I read the 
description again and sighed. 

“Carl, look, they named it after you!” 

“Yeah, Donut. I see that,” I said. 

“Do you think everybody will see it like that?” 

“I don’t know. I hope not,” I said. 

My Incendiary Device Handling skill had jumped up to five 
immediately upon the construction of the “device.” All I had done was open 
up the jug, pour a splash or two out until it was about 3/4's full, added a 
couple ounces of goblin oil from my inventory, and then stuck a torch in the 
hole. The short, tapered torch fit perfectly into the mouth of the jug, sealing 
it like a cork. It was almost like it had been made for it. 

We tested one just to see if it would actually work. The clay moonshine 
jugs seemed pretty solid, and I was afraid they wouldn’t break. The bottles 
had “Rev-Up” written on the side of them. 

The cool thing about torches was that I could just look at them and 
mentally select Activate, and they would start burning. No lighter required. 


I lit the torch, grasped the jug by the little round handle, and tossed it 
high in the air, arcing it toward a group of three, dead clurichauns. 

Whoosh! The jug shattered easily. The explosion itself was insignificant, 
but the angry flames splashed like water over a wide area, crackling and 
hissing angrily, glowing blue. We had to step back. 

“Wow!” Donut cried, hopping up and down. “Would you look at that!” 

The flames reached the ceiling, and we had to step further out of the 
room due to the heat. When it finally died out a minute and fifteen seconds 
later, all that remained in the room was blackened, crumbly husks of bodies 
and ash. 

“Well, that’s pretty damn cool,” I said. 

We sat down and made ten more of the devices. After the fire, the room 
smelled oddly of whiskey and toast. Most of the jugs were already about 
3/4's full, which was good. I didn’t have to waste any of the moonshine. 

Out of curiosity, I examined the jugs in my inventory and compared 
their value to my other explosive devices. The jugs were pretty high on the 
list, just above the smoke bombs. 

The full, unaltered jugs of moonshine were more valuable, however. In 
fact, they were near the top of my list, just above the Engineer’s Table I still 
had, the only intact table I had left after our construction of the redoubt. 

These things were much less dangerous—to me at least—than the sticks 
of goblin dynamite. But they were a little too good. We lost the ability to 
loot the corpses when they burned away, meaning we lost our ability to get 
more jugs. We moved toward the staircase. We decided to incinerate every 
other room, which would keep our jug supply stable. We continued our 
pattern of Donut raising the dead and me practicing with the slingshot 
which slowed our progress but gave us some much-needed training. My 
slingshot skill remained constant. However, I received a few other skills, 
including Aiming and Steady Hand. Donut’s skill in Second Chance ticked 
up to level four. 

We finally came across a new type of mob just outside of the boss room, 
which was thankfully separate from the stairwell. This room was big, and 
like the goblin workshop, filled with dozens of the little assholes. There 
wasn’t any sort of giant machinery, but a tube ran along the ceiling from the 
far boss chamber to the center of the room, curving down into what looked 
like a filthy, aluminum bathtub. There were piles of the bottles, both empty 
and full in the room. The snot-covered level threes were taking the jugs and 


tipping them into the tub to fill them up. At the far end of the room was a 
doorway guarded by a pair of small, floating creatures. These weren’t 
clurichauns, but small, fat fairies who buzzed about with a pair of 
hummingbird wings. They looked like miniature, winged soccer moms. I 
peered around the corner and examined their properties. 

Laminak Rev-Up Consultant Elite — Level 6 

The second tier of the Rev-Up empire, these Laminak consultants 
don’t need to speak to a manager. They are the managers. They run 
their business with a brutal efficiency. It is said if one of their 
underlings falls behind on their sales quotas, they punish them by 
requiring them to take a sip of their own product. Those that survive 
are repurposed as workers for the filling room, or worse, as still 
engineers, working directly under Krakaren herself. 

These mobs do not have any special abilities other than immunity to 
most health-seeping attacks. Having survived years drinking their own 
product, it is said their essence is especially valuable, prized as a shield 
against disease. 

In a dusty corner of the room stood what appeared to be a pair of child- 
sized stationary bikes, the kind gyms used for their spinning classes. There 
was some sort of goblin-style pulley system attached to it, but I couldn’t tell 
what was going on from here. A banner hung from the ceiling in the same 
corner, but it was only attached by one end, and it dangled vertically, 
forgotten. The banner read, “Rev-Up Smoothies! Invigorating!” 

“Okay,” I said. “We need to kill everyone in the room, but if we want to 
keep those jugs and that moonshine, we can’t blow them up or burn them 
out. Plus it sounds like we can get something good from the corpses of the 
laminak things.” 

“Goodness me,” Donut said. “How can we do that?” 

We peeked again around the corner, keeping low. 

“Do you think you can jump over there?” I asked, pointing at the far 
wall with the two fairies. “Using your spell, I mean.” 

“Oh, yes. Definitely.” 

I nodded. “Good. Here’s the plan.” 


OceanofPDE:com 


THE TWO BIGGEST PROBLEMS WITH DONUT’S PUDDLE JUMPER SPELL WAS 
the cooldown and the mana cost. Once cast, she couldn’t do it again for five 
hours, which meant once she was in that room, she couldn’t teleport out. 

Secondly, it cost 20 mana points. She only had 26 mana, and while she 
had plenty of mana restoration potions, she still had that awful two-minute 
cooldown between potions. Her points were restoring themselves more and 
more quickly, but it was still too slow to count on it for combat. She was 
going to be woefully underpowered, so if something went wrong—and 
something always went wrong—the only thing she had going for herself 
was her speed. 

We decided I would stay behind during this part of the assault. With my 
extra fairy aggro, we weren’t certain what would happen if we both showed 
ourselves. The plan was simple, but it made me nervous, mostly because I 
didn’t have any control. This was my idea, but the cat was doing all the 
heavy lifting. 

“If you get in trouble, I’ll toss a smoke bomb,” I said. “Just jump and 
run, okay?” 

Donut nodded. She was putting on a brave face, but I could tell she was 
also anxious. 

“Okay, let’s do this,” she said. 

We moved back to the corner, peering around the edge. Donut cast her 
spell, which had a ten-second countdown. She flashed, her form starting to 
fade until she disappeared with a loud, wet pop. 


She reappeared at the far end of the room, right between the two 
laminak fairies. She started rapidly speaking with them as all the 
clurichauns in the room jumped to their feet and turned to attack. 

The soccer mom fairies were winged, therefore Donut had the ability to 
turn their dots white, removing their hostility. The problem was that only 
two of them were the airborne-type fairies. The other 40 or so were not. We 
were hoping Donut could talk to the two fairies, using her charm like she 
did with the goblins. The fairies would then tell their subordinates not to 
attack Donut. 

From my side of the room, I could see that the two fairies had, 
thankfully, fallen under Donut’s charm. I couldn’t hear what they were 
saying, but like the goblins, they’d been turned right away. 

One of the fairies yelled at the clurichauns, speaking in Syndicate 
Standard. “Get back to work!” she called. “This is a client, not an enemy.” 
The dozens of monsters looked at each other and reluctantly returned to 
their stations, but all of them kept their eyes on Donut, all grumbling and 
looking uneasy. 

Donut: CARL THEIR DOTS AREN’T TURNING WHITE ONLY 
THE TWO FAIRIES. 

Carl: Okay, we planned for this. Don’t wait. Go for plan B. 

Donut: IT IS CALLED PLAN PIED PIPER NOT PLAN B. 

Carl: Goddamnit, Donut. Just be careful. 

Despite her charisma being an outstanding 43, we still didn’t know how 
well this whole charm thing worked. It was clear she wasn’t some sort of 
walking mind control goddess, at least not with monsters that were 
programmed to dislike her. As with everything else, there was more to it, a 
hidden balance I couldn’t see. It worked great with white dots, but getting 
the dots white was still a mystery. 

But that was okay. We’d prepared for this contingency. Instead of 
talking them into giving us all the moonshine, we had plan B. Plan Pied 
Piper. 

Donut confidently stepped into the room, walking in my direction. She 
kept a wide distance from the toxic clurichauns, but she headed toward me. 
The two fairies followed. Sparkles trailed in the air as they bobbed up and 
down. 

“It’s just horrible,” Donut was saying. “It’s like someone came in and 
slaughtered them all. I, for one, was devastated. At first I thought it was one 


of those filthy crawlers, but then I saw one of those dogs with the painted 
faces. The dingoes.” 

“The kobolds?” one of the fairies said, sounding perplexed. “Why 
would the kobolds attack us? We get along fine with the kobolds.” 

“Come, come see,” Donut said. She looked about the room. “All of you 
should come.” 

“They need to stay and work,” the fairy said. The pudgy fairy swept her 
hair out of her eyes. Both of them wore an inverted bob haircut. The one 
doing the speaking wore what looked like a pantsuit made out of leaves. 
The other was in a dress made of the same materials. 

Donut stopped and looked directly at the fairy. “No, they should come, 
too. All of them.” 

“Everybody come on! We’re taking a break!” the fairy said. 

“A... a what?” one of the clurichauns asked. 

“Just come, the princess wants to show us something.” 

I pulled away from the corner and rushed down to the next chamber. In 
the center were three dead clurichauns. We hadn’t firebombed this room, 
though one of them had been zombiefied. I moved into the next hall down, 
just outside of the room. Like with most of these rooms, the entranceway 
was a small room of its own, like a foyer with a raised, rounded ceiling. A 
pair of brindle grubs were in the hall further down, inching their way 
toward the corpses. Jesus, I thought. These things were everywhere. I 
rushed over and stomped them both down and returned to the foyer. I 
waited for Donut to Pied Piper the group into the chamber. 

Carl: Donut, I am in place. 

Donut: WE ARE COMING. 

“Look at this, just look,” Donut was saying a minute later as she strode 
into the room. She gave the dead monsters a wide berth, walking into the 
chamber. “Come, everybody, gather around. Take a look.” 

I could hear them crowding into the room as I leaned against the wall, 
hidden behind the entrance to the next hallway down. I pulled two boom 
jugs from my inventory and held one in each hand. 

“This was not a dingo attack,” one of the fairies was saying. “One of 
them has been hit with necromancy magic.” 

“No, no, come look at this, Caroline,” Donut said. “It’s in the hallway 
over here. Tell your workers to stay here. Uh, it’ll be good for them to look 
at what happens to those who don’t, uh, work hard or something.” 


“Okay,” the fairy said. She started shouting orders at the crowd of 
grumbling clurichauns. 

A moment later Donut and the two fairies floated into the dark foyer, 
moving past me. Donut stopped just as the two fairies noticed me standing 
there. 

“What’s this?” the pantsuit fairy said, floating away with surprise. She 
was smaller than I realized, no bigger than a crow. The laminak looked just 
like a miniature, 40-something woman. She carried no weapons. 

“Carl, Pd like you to meet Caroline and Max. It’s okay, ladies. Carl 
needs to show you something.” 

They were looking down at the pair of jugs in my hands. 

“Where did you get this?” the other fairy asked. “And what did you do 
to our product?” 

I grinned. “Let me show you.” I mentally clicked Activate on both the 
torches, stepped to the side to the room’s entrance, and I tossed both jugs in 
at the group of 40 monsters stupidly staring back at us. 

The hands of the pantsuit fairy started glowing red just as Donut leaped 
into the air and snagged the laminak like she was catching a bird. The cat’s 
crupper jingled and poofed out like a skirt as she fell. Donut clasped the 
fairy between two claws as she chomped down. She shook her head, 
breaking the fairy’s neck. 

The second fairy zipped up to the ceiling of the entrance hall, lightning 
fast, out of reach, screaming as I swiped at her, trying to catch her in the air. 
Damnit. I wanted to kill them without hurting their fragile little bodies. 

“Not fair,” the fairy screamed. The air crackled with her passage. She 
sounded desperate, on the verge of tears. “Not fair! We were going to move 
down to the third floor.” Her hands also glowed red, and she fired a magic 
missile right at me. 

It hit me square in the chest, and I flew backward, slamming onto my 
back, sliding a few feet into the room with the raging inferno. A note 
flashed. Warning: Damage Enhanced. It felt as if Pd been kicked by a 
damn horse. My vision flashed red, this time a health warning. I felt broken 
bones in my chest just as the searing heat threatened to catch my hair on 
fire. I clicked a healing potion as I scrambled to my feet. My chest crackled 
as it mended itself. I pulled myself back into the hall, out of the raging heat, 
the breath still knocked out of me. 


The plan, plan B at least, had gone off without a hitch until now. The 
fairy remained up on the ceiling, screaming down at Donut, shooting magic 
missiles down at the cat, who was doing a much better job at dodging them. 

After a moment, the fairy seemed to run out of mana. She continued to 
scream down at us. She was trapped as long as Donut and I each guarded 
one of the doors to the foyer. 

“You can jump that high, can’t you?” I muttered. 

“Probably,” Donut said, out of breath. “Or I can hit her with Magic 
Missile. I have much better aim than she does. I can hit her with a three 
power, and it probably won’t hurt her body too much. She’s level six, after 
all.” 

“Missile her if she runs,” I said, pulling the slingshot out of my 
inventory. 

It took ten shots before I hit her. The rock caught her in the wing, and 
she dropped a few feet before recovering. Her health barely went down. She 
was a quick little fucker. She kept screaming for someone named “Damien” 
to come help. 

Damien never came. 

“She’s going to regenerate her mana before you get her,” Donut said. 
“Hurry up, or I’m going to do it.” 

I aimed and fired, trying to anticipate where she was going to be. The 
rock clipped her in the wing again, and she cried out in pain, dropping 
again. 

Donut leaped into the air and caught her before she could recover. They 
hit the ground with a crunch. 

“Honestly, Carl,” Donut said, spitting the dead fairy onto the ground 
next to the other one. “Must I do all the work?” 

“I’m training,” I said. I indicated the room behind me, where Pd 
received experience for killing 40 monsters all at once. “Besides, I just hit 
level 11.” 

“Me too, actually,” Donut said. 

My Slingshot skill remained at three, but my Aiming skill went up to 
four. 

Both of the fairies dropped 25 gold pieces, and each had five brochures 
in their inventory. 

The description said their “essence” was valuable, but the only thing 
that remained was their bodies. 


Laminak Rev-Up Consultant Elite Corpse (Alchemy Material) 

“Damnit,” I said. Pd been hoping they would just drop potions, 
something to protect us against the Taint disease. 

Donut didn’t want the corpses in her inventory, so I took them both. 
When I pulled them in, their bodies disappeared, but their clothes and wings 
remained on the ground. I took those, too. 

“We didn’t get a good potion, but that was still pretty awesome,” Donut 
said as we headed back toward the filling room. “My first solo mission. I 
bet I’d be fine crawling this dungeon all by myself.” 

I nodded. Still, I couldn’t help but feel like an asshole. The feeling 
wasn’t as bad as I’d felt after the whole thing with the goblin babies, but 
there was something inherently distasteful about using Donut’s charm 
ability to kill things. Yes, these were monsters that wouldn’t hesitate about 
killing us. But like with the goblins, once Donut turned them neutral, we 
saw a part of their personalities one didn’t normally see with monsters. 

We were going to move down to the third floor. Jesus. Her voice had 
been filled with such longing, such despair. 

I remembered what Mordecai had said, that the mobs in deeper levels 
weren’t going to be as sympathetic. I really hoped so. I needed to remember 
who the real enemies were. The Syndicate. Borant. The kua-tin. I felt bad 
about killing monsters who were nothing more than pawns, but the fact was 
we needed to get as strong as we could. It was us or them. 

“You’re not going to break me,” I whispered. It’d become a mantra. 

“What?” Donut asked. 

“Nothing,” I said. 

We walked into the large room. I went to work grabbing all the empty 
and full jugs I could. I grabbed another two tables, including one called an 
“Alchemy workstation.” By the time we were done, we had 80 empty jugs 
and another 60 full ones. 

I decided against filling the empty jugs with the moonshine from the 
tub. The metal container was bolted to the ground, so I couldn’t take the 
whole thing, and I feared just touching the liquid would have some sort of 
nasty effect, like blinding me. Or worse. 

The liquid continued to drip in from the next room over. 

The door to the boss chamber looked like the entrance to some sort of 
community center. It had “Live, Laugh, Love” written on the top of the 
door in little cutout, wooden letters. Under that was a schedule of events. 


The next event scheduled was for noon on the day after the collapse. It read, 
“Good news, everyone! Little Breannlyne has the chickenpox! Potluck Pox 
party here at noon. No peanuts. Let’s get that immunity!” 

“I think we should probably just leave this boss alone,” I said. “There 
might be more kids in there. And if there’s a moonshine still, it’ll probably 
blow up just as easy as that goblin engine. We only have one hobgoblin 
detonator left, and I don’t want to waste it if we don’t have to. If we just 
toss dynamite or a boom jar in there, we might not get away in time. I bet 
the explosion will be big. It’s not worth it to just go in there and fight face 
to face, not when we don’t have a real defense against that taint debuff. We 
don’t know how many of those things there will be.” 

I was afraid Donut was going to protest, but she didn’t. 

We moved to the corner of the room. I pulled the “Rev-Up Smoothies! 
Invigorating!” banner off the wall. It was made of a cotton-like cloth. I put 
it in my inventory as I moved to investigate the two stationary bicycles. 

A pully ran from the tire to a small, flat platform welded onto the front 
of the bike. A little, black, segmented wheel, no bigger than a half-dollar 
coin sat in the middle of the platform. Weird. 

I noticed a pair of dust-covered, wooden boxes tucked away in the 
comer. I picked one up, and the top slid off. I examined the contents. It was 
filled with empty, clinking glass containers with screw-on lids. The box 
held twelve of them. Also shoved into the box was another, similar black lid 
with little blades on it. 

I examined the little lid using the tooltips. 

“Oh,” I said. “I see. It’s a blender. A bicycle-powered blender. It looks 
like it hasn’t been used at all.” I pulled one of the glass tubes out and 
unscrewed the cover. I could screw the bladed cover onto the glass and pop 
the whole thing onto the platform. If I turned the pedals on the small bike, 
it’d turn the blades, supposedly blending whatever was in the glass. Then I 
could flip it over, remove the bladed cover and replace it with the original 
top, leaving me with a glass bottle of whatever I decided to blend. 

Like a smoothie. 

We had something similar, though not bicycle-powered, in our 
apartment. 

I peeked in the second box, and this one only held six glasses instead of 
twelve. The bladed part of the blender was missing. A sheet of paper sat in 
the box, and I pulled it free. 


Rev-Up Immunity Smoothie Recipe. 

“Holy crap,” I said. The recipe only required two items. “No wonder 
they discontinued this. Gross.” 

“What, what?” Donut asked. 

“This is all game setup,” I said as I started putting all the items into my 
inventory. One of the bikes was bolted to the ground, but the second wasn’t. 
I picked it up and pulled it in. “You’re supposed to find this and make the 
recipe. If you make the smoothie, you’ll have immunity from the Taint 
debuff and something called the Vigorous Measles. And then you’ll have 
the proper protection to fight the boss.” I swallowed. “It’s really gross, 
though. I don’t want to go in there. I think we should just take these...” 

I never finished the sentence. 

The door to the boss room blasted open. A pair of pink tentacles, each at 
least fifteen feet long, reached out, swaying into the room. A terrible, ear- 
splitting screech filled the air, followed by a second screech. Then a third 
and a fourth. 

Each octopus-like tentacle was covered with mouths. Dozens of them. 
Each mouth was wide, big around as a frisbee, but human-shaped with 
bright, red, human lips. There were no eyes or other facial features. Just a 
cacophony of screaming voices, saying nothing. Just screaming. 

Familiar music started to play, barely discernable under the constant 
shrieks. 

At the far end of the chamber where we’d walked in, bars dropped 
down, locking up the room. 

“What the hell?” I cried, backing against the wall. “This isn’t a boss 
chamber!” 

A new achievement appeared, and it announced itself before I could 
wave it into the folder. 

New Achievement! Wait, Bosses Can Leave Their Rooms? 

Welcome to the second floor, bitches. 

Reward: This shit plays great on the recap episode. If you scream 
loud enough, maybe yov’ll make the show. 


OceanofPDE com 


KRAKAREN CLONE! 

Level 10 Neighborhood Boss! 

First off, this isn’t the Krakaren. This is a Krakaren. For every one 
that is killed, Krakaren Prime births two more. 

Part of a collective mind intent upon destroying any semblance of 
scientific progress in the universe, the Krakaren is the only communal 
brain entity in the galaxy who actually gets stupider as time moves on. 
Consisting of multiple, shrieking tentacles, members of the Krakaren 
cooperative spend their days birthing their disease-laden minions, 
creating and selling harmful products, attempting to debate scientific 
experts, and proselytizing to the weak-minded, all in an attempt to... 
Well, nobody knows what the hell their end goal is. 

Even Eris, Goddess of Chaos, doesn’t want anything to do with 
these crazy assholes. 

The moment the description ended, a portion of wall above the door 
broke open, and a third tentacle burst into the room from the next chamber 
over, swinging blindly about. 

“Carl, Carl, what are we going to do?” Donut cried, pushing herself into 
the corner. “It’s huge!” 

The first two tentacles retracted, and a pair of clurichaun consultants 
came out of the door, looking wildly about. 

“Shit,” I said. “Keep them away! I need to make a goddamned 
smoothie!” 

“What about the tentacles?” Donut cried. 


I eyed the tentacle sweeping about the ceiling of the room. It kept 
smashing into the pipe that led to the tub of moonshine. 

“Don’t attack the boss yet. I don’t think it can see. Focus on those 
guys.” I pulled a glass smoothie container into my right hand. I pulled a jug 
of unaltered moonshine from my inventory into my left. Donut leaped onto 
my shoulder and shot a pair of magic missiles, nailing both of the 
clurichauns, who dropped dead at the doorway. A third hesitantly peeked 
out, looking for us. Donut got him right in the head, and he also collapsed. 

I pulled the cork with my teeth, and I filled the smoothie container a 
third of the way with the moonshine. Thankfully it had a little line on the 
glass. I didn’t know how exact this had to be. 

Directly above us, the cinderblock wall broke apart, showering us with 
rock. A tentacle burst forth, screaming. It scrabbled, swinging at nothing, 
swaying just feet over our heads. 

Above, the mouths dripped with goo. I jumped out of the way as snot 
splashed near me. Moonshine sloshed out of the glass, and I had to pour a 
little more in. 

Jesus fuck. I tossed the jug toward the entrance, and it shattered, 
splashing moonshine. A moment later, another tentacle once again burst 
from the door hole, sending the three dead clurichaun flying. 

I pulled the corpse of the laminak from my inventory. I held the limp, 
naked, wingless body in my hand. It was still warm. Her little, dead eyes 
stared up in her final shock at having been snatched out of the air by Donut. 
The sensation was odd, like holding an anatomically-correct doll of a 
pudgy, middle-aged woman. I didn’t have time to think about it. 

I shoved her, headfirst, into the glass container. Her shoulders were a 
little too wide to fit, so I had to push. The shoulders cracked, and I used my 
finger to ram her all the way in there, like trying to stuff a Cornish game 
hen into a thermos. I produced the blender top with the blades, and I had to 
push hard to get it to screw into place. 

“Carl, what in god’s name are you doing?” 

“It’s the recipe,” I cried. I screwed the container onto the blender 
platform. It attached with a click. I sat atop the much-too-small bicycle, my 
knees as high as my chest. I prayed the bike wouldn’t break. I prayed my 
spiked kneepads wouldn’t activate, impaling my own chin. 

I recited the recipe out loud. “You fill a third of the glass container with 
moonshine, add one corpse of a laminak fairy, blend until pink, drink warm 


or chilled. Each smoothie contains ten doses.” 

“Tf you think I’m going to drink that...” 

Across the room, yet another tentacle appeared, this one on the ground. 
The next tentacle to break through would be right here. I spun my legs. The 
bike protested at first, but it quickly gained steam, spinning like a regular 
blender. Within the little glass container, the dead fairy stared back at me, 
spinning until she was sucked away, the concoction first green, then red, 
and then pink. After a moment, it started to sparkle. 

I pulled the glass bottle off the top just as another two clurichauns 
entered the chamber, squeezing past the single tentacle that still reached 
about the room. The tentacle wrapped around the metallic tub and squeezed. 
It crumpled like a beer can. 

Above, a glob of snot fell, splashing off my head and oozing onto my 
face. 

You have been inflicted with the Taint. 

“Damnit!” I really need to start sticking my hood up. 

“Run,” I said. “Toward the back of the room.” 

Behind us, the wall exploded, sending the lone bike flying. It shattered 
into pieces when it hit the floor. 

As I ran, I examined the smoothie in my hand. 

Rev-Up Immunity Smoothie. 

One part moonshine, and one part fairy, this smoothie offers 10 
doses for the price of one! Each sip of this delicious concoction imbues 
the following effects: 

Temporary immunity to all health-seeping conditions and debuffs. 

Temporary protection against all communicable diseases. 

Inflicts the Buzzed debuff. (Plus 3 Charisma. Minus 1 Dexterity. 
Plus Shaky Cam debuff. Plus Truth Serum Debuff.) 

I didn’t have time to think about it. I took a sip. 

It tasted as if I’d taken a drink directly from the diseased asshole of an 
incontinent skunk. It took all of my strength not to vomit. 

“Stick it in your hotlist and drink,” I cried, shoving it at Donut as we 
reached the end of the room. It disappeared from my hand. She didn’t 
argue. She glowed as the potion took hold. 

A pair of icons flashed, indicating my immunity. The taint debuff didn’t 
go away, however, which meant I couldn’t heal myself. But at least now I 
couldn’t be inflicted with the death measles or whatever it was called. 


“Death measles,” I heard myself say as I ran. “Now that’s funny.” 

It wasn’t funny. I laughed again. What the hell is wrong with... 

“Ow,” I cried as a rock bounced off my head. My health flashed, my bar 
moving further down than it should’ve. I’d been hit with a damn slingshot, 
and the damage was enhanced because of my stupid goblin tattoo. 

I was woozy, and I realized it was the Buzzed debuff. Whoa. I had to 
consciously keep myself from falling over. If this was Buzzed, I’d hate to 
see what the Shit-Faced debuff felt like. 

I pulled an angled, still-intact section of the redoubt from my inventory, 
putting the shield up as we reached the back corner of the room. Five 
tentacles smashed about, and a pair of clurichauns rushed at us, both of 
them shooting rocks, which pinged off the steel table. 

“What’s your mana?” I asked. 

“Sixteen,” Donut cried, her voice slurred. She popped up and fired a 
missile at a clurichaun. She hit him in the shoulder, but he still went down. 
“Now twelve. Die motherfucker! Die!” 

I barely had time to parse that Donut was also drunk as a screaming 
tentacle smashed against the table, rocketing us both against the back wall. 
My health, already in the red, moved further down. The monster didn’t 
seem to realize what it hit. I watched as it grasped on the last standing 
clurichaun, wrapping around him. The mouths stopped screaming, all 
revealing long, sharp teeth as they pulled the shrieking monster back into 
the boss room, chewing. It returned a moment later, blood dripping from the 
mouths, which resumed their caterwaul. 

Four more clurichauns rushed into the room. Another tentacle emerged, 
pushing through yet another hole in the wall. 

This tentacle was different. Instead of mouths, it was covered in 
hundreds of tiny, little orifices. The longer, thinner arm reached into the 
room and made a psst, psst noise, like a spray bottle. A fine, green mist 
filled the chamber. 

You’ve been infected with the Vigorous Measles! 

Infection negated due to immunity! 

“Don’t fire any more missiles,” I said. My head swam. 

“If we die, I want you to know that I love you, Carl,” Donut said. “I 
don’t love you as much as I love Miss Beatrice, because she’s, you know, 
she’s my person. Or as much as I love Ferdinand. But I love you.” 


“Focus, Donut,” I said. I tried not to let what she’d said sting. But it did. 
Who the fuck was Ferdinand anyway? Bea was giving you up, Donut. She 
was giving you up, trading you in for a younger model. But I didn’t say it. 
Not out loud. Now was not the time for that conversation. Never was the 
time for that conversation, not anymore. But especially not now. Not when 
Bea was fucking dead. 

“See that Clurichaun there,” I said, pointing a shaking hand. “Raise him 
from the dead.” 

Two of the clurichauns running at us cried out as they were picked up 
and crushed by their own boss. 

I leaped up, stumbling away as yet another tentacle reached for me. I 
ducked, and it sailed past. 

I was suddenly on the ground. When I’d ducked, I just kept going down. 
I pulled myself up and kept running. 

I formed a fist, and I rushed at the two remaining monsters. I kicked 
one, who went flying, and then I drunkenly swung at another, connecting 
with his giant head with a right hook. I pulled back, an ear attached to my 
spike. I dropped to the ground as a tentacle swooped over my head. 

Ahead of me, a clurichaun zombie rose up, groaning. 

“Tell him to hold this over his head and run into the boss chamber,” I 
cried. I pulled a boom jug from my inventory as the zombie stood there, 
swaying, looking at me. For good measure I pulled the most stable stick of 
dynamite I had and shoved it down his overalls. Probably a bad idea, I 
thought right after I did it. 

Oh well. 

The zombie grabbed the jug on Donut’s instruction and held it over his 
head, like that guy holding the boombox in that Say Anything movie. I lit 
the torch and sent him on his way. He turned toward the doorway, which 
was currently empty, and he ran. He barely missed being swept away by 
another tentacle, and he reached the door just as a seventh tentacle broke 
through the wall and five more clurichauns emerged, who all stared, 
unmoving, at the zombie rushing right at them. They moved out of the way, 
uncomprehending what was happening. 

I turned in the opposite direction and ran toward our small shield. I dove 
behind it, barely dodging another tentacle that swooped right over my head. 
As I jumped behind the metal shield, Donut yelled, “I thought you said the 
explosion was going to be too big to use it in here!” 


I looked at my health, already perilously low. Donut didn’t have a 
scratch on her. I pulled the alchemy table out of my inventory, putting it 
directly over us, placing us within a clamshell. I felt as if I was going to 
vomit. My head continued to swim. 

“It probably is,” I said. “And I’m probably about to die, but I think 
you’ ll be okay.” 

“Carl, no,” Donut said. “No!” 

“It’s okay,” I said. “Go back to Brandon. They’ll watch over you.” I 
wrapped myself around the cat. 

“T don’t want to do this without you,” Donut cried. “Carl, I lied before. I 
wont be fine on my own. I need you. No, no!” 

I couldn’t answer her before the explosion came. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 35 | 


I WASN’T DEAD. 

I was deaf. I was blind. I was in a fuck ton of pain. I couldn’t feel my 
legs. 

But I wasn’t dead. 

I gasped for air. My health indicator blinked, the lowest it had ever 
been. My eardrums had been blown out. My entire face felt burned, my 
eyes included. The pain was overwhelming, like hundreds of claws pulling 
at me from different directions at once. They were still pulling, ripping 
pieces of me away. 

The Taint still had a minute left before it would run out. I wasn’t out of 
danger yet. I could feel Donut standing on top of me. I could feel the 
vibration of her voice. She was shouting, pawing at me desperately. 

“If you’re saying something to me, I can’t hear you,” I said, shouting 
the words. 

Donut: YOU HAVE TO STAND UP. THE ROOM IS ON FIRE. WE 
KILLED THE BOSS. THE DOOR IS OPEN, BUT THE FIRE IS 
GETTING CLOSER. HURRY. 

“T can’t. I think my legs are broken. I can’t feel them.” I pulled up my 
health UI, looking at the damage to my body. The entire pie chart was 
blinking red, all except my feet. My health was at 6% and still ticking 
downward. I was bleeding internally. I had third-degree burns on my face. 
My legs were broken where the table had smashed into them. 

A moment later, I felt myself moving through the debris. I realized it 
was Donut, dragging me by my cloak, pulling me from the room. My whole 


body screamed with pain. A blinking message warned I was about to pass 
out. 

Donut: CARL, YOU NEED TO WORK ON YOUR CARDIO. YOU 
ARE MUCH HEAVIER THAN YOU LOOK. 

“Ten seconds before you can heal me. Get scroll ready,” I croaked as 
darkness descended. 


I awakened, my body screaming. I felt everything inside of me repair itself. 
Donut had used one of the healing scrolls, possibly at the last possible 
second. I jammed down on my healing spell also, which sped up the 
process. I felt my hearing return, my sight restored. The burn on my face 
smoothed out. 

I didn’t move for several moments, sitting there, staring up at the ceiling 
of the hallway. 

“You saved me again,” I said to the cat, who sat next to me, desperately 
cleaning herself. I still didn’t dare move, not trusting the bones in my body 
not to break again. 

“That’s what I do,” she said. 

Donut: I DON’T WANT TO SAY THIS OUT LOUD, BUT OUR 
VIEWS WENT WAY UP. ISN’T IT GREAT? 

I groaned, rolling onto my side. My one-armed jacket was now scorched 
to hell. My cloak and other magical items didn’t have a scratch on them. I 
looked down at my toes, and they sparkled. 

“I think I was saved by that damn pedicure kit,” I said. “The table 
should have severed my feet right at the ankles. Instead it bounced off and 
broke my legs. I would’ve bled out.” 

The fire in the expanded boss chamber eventually died off, leaving 
nothing but melted slag. We wandered in. 

The alchemy table I’d used as the top part of our shield was undamaged. 
The other table, the redoubt piece that I’d used here as a shield, was now 
shattered and scorched. 

“Huh, weird,” I said. I touched the alchemy workshop table, and it was 
cool to the touch. I pulled it back into my inventory. I had two such tables 


now, designed to be placed inside of personal spaces. This one and the 
Engineer’s table. It seemed they were indestructible. 

This was a bug. A bug I could exploit. I couldn’t say anything about it, 
though. Not out loud. Had the table’s invulnerability saved us? I was going 
to need to pay attention to the nightly list of patch notes to make sure they 
didn’t fix this one. In the meantime, I’d use it to our advantage. 

The ductwork on the ceiling hung in tatters, a few pieces still clinging to 
the chamber by braces. The severed, skeletal remains of tentacles lay 
scattered. The ground was hot to the touch. Donut jumped to my shoulder. 

“Let’s get the neighborhood map,” I said, hesitantly moving toward the 
main boss chamber. I cringed, afraid we’d find more dead babies. 

I shouldered past the long, crumbling skeleton bones to behold the lair 
of Krakaren. 

“It smells like that time you tried microwaving Fancy Feast in here,” 
Donut said. 

“I was drunk,” I said. “And you ate that shit right up.” 

More tattered ductwork filled the room. There had been banners on the 
wall, but I could no longer read them. I didn’t see anything that could be 
construed as baby skeletons, which was a relief. Dozens of clurichauns had 
been in here along with a few splatters that might’ve been laminak fairies. 

The mechanical remains of a moonshine still sat in the corner, like I 
suspected, but it appeared the machine was much smaller than I had 
guessed it might be. It was probably why I was still alive. ’'d assumed the 
thing to be huge. And explosive. 

The remnants of copper tubes snaked from the machine to the main, 
dead body of the Krakaren monster. She’d been huge, twenty feet tall at 
least, an immobile, octopus-like creature. Her stinking, dead body leaned 
against the back wall as we stared at it. Half of her head was burned away, 
but it seemed she had a beaked mouth and a group of eyes. Black streaks 
ran down the massive corpse, like running mascara. She stank of rotting 
seafood. 

They’d taken some sort of cosmic octopus creature and combined it 
with your average, suburban, anti-vax, let-me-talk-to-your-manager mom. 
At least that was my impression. The door on the outside of the room, this 
whole ridiculous storyline with the MLM moonshine certainly made it seem 
that way. 


But there was more to it, too. I suspected the Krakaren “collective” or 
whatever they called it was a real thing. Sort of. This whole time it had 
seemed they were just combining absurd stereotypes from earth with 
random monsters just to fuck with us. It came to me now as I stared up at 
this thing that they were doing the opposite. After all, this was all really for 
the benefit of the audience, not us. They were taking something familiar to 
the viewers, like these interstellar, dumbass octopus monsters and 
combining them with an earth analog in an effort to both teach the watchers 
about earth culture and to lampoon interstellar cultures and creatures they 
felt deserving of scorn. Kind of like the way cartoonists would sometimes 
personify rats and snakes as scumbags. Or foxes as shady, used-car dealers. 

Or Persian cats as princesses. 

A massive cage filled half the room, still intact. The creatures within 
had mostly burned to slag, but I could see that it had been filled to the brim 
with brindle grubs. They were all dead. 

“We never got to see the boss up close,” Donut said as I moved near 
enough to loot the neighborhood map. 

“Something tells me this isn’t the last time we’ll see this one,” I said as 
the twists and turns of the neighborhood populated onto my interface. “Ah, 
fuck.” 

“What?” Donut asked. 

“Look at the map,” I said. 

At least 50 red dots filled the area. All of them slow-moving. Brindle 
grubs. It was like they could sense a battle, and they converged on an area. 
Killing them wasn’t a problem. They didn’t fight back. I could literally run 
over them and kill an entire hallway of them in seconds. But that was a lot 
of them. A whole lot. 

I planned out the path to the tutorial guild. It wasn’t far. Just a few 
hundred meters away. 

“Let’s go talk to Mordecai,” I said. 


“That bitch really said that?” Mordecai said, outraged, after I told him about 
Odette’s offer. “She wants me to seek her out? I would rather spend another 
2,000 years in this room than exist in the same solar system as her. I’d 


rather meet a woman, sire children, and then devour those children than 
have anything to do with her again.” 

“So that’s a no, then?” Donut asked. 

Mordecai was no longer a Rat Hooligan. He’d shapeshifted into a much 
larger, hairier, and obsidian creature called a Bugaboo. He was like a bear 
with no neck, with enormous, owlish eyes, and comically skinny legs. His 
long arms were also absurdly thin compared to the rest of the seven-foot- 
tall creature. He looked terrifying and cartoonish at the same time. I’d 
almost punched him right in the face when we first entered the room. It took 
a solid ten seconds for me to realize that this was still Mordecai. 

I examined his properties now. 

Mordecai — Bugaboo. Level 50. 

Guildmaster of this guildhall. 

This is a Non-Combatant NPC. 

You know that creepy, unkempt guy who lives on the corner? He 
doesn’t seem to have a job. Has a van. Hangs out at the park with a 
pair of binoculars? Yeah, you get the idea. Solitary monstrosities that 
never settle in a single place, Bugaboos may be found anywhere on the 
dungeon’s lower floors, often lying in wait for Crawlers to pass by so 
they can jump out and... do things to them. They’ll tell you they just 
want to cuddle. That’s probably a lie. 

“That’s quite the monster they chose for you,” I said. 

Mordecai nodded. “These guys are pretty depraved. They have them on 
the first and second floors, but the third floor will be filled with them. Don’t 
wander near alleys at night.” 

“At night?” I asked. 

Mordecai waved. “I can’t tell you about that.” I looked up at him, but he 
winked at me. I understood. 

“So, Odette,” I asked. “You don’t like her? Is there something we need 
to be worried about?” 

Mordecai took a long, deep breath. “Odette cares about Odette. She is 
smart, she is cunning, and she is more self-centered than that thing at the 
center of the galaxy. But her current gig, it is perfect for her. She can be 
very useful and helpful to you. Until you’re not.” 

It’s funny, that’s pretty much the exact same thing she’d said about the 
game’s AI. I didn’t say that out loud. 

“If she invites us back on the show, should we go?” I asked. 


Mordecai grunted. “Oh, you should go. Her program is one of the few I 
would recommend. Not that they’d give you much of a choice. Speaking of 
shows, there’s someone who wants to speak with you. I’ve been asked to 
ping her once you showed up here. She’ll arrive in about ten or fifteen 
minutes.” 

“Another show?” Donut asked. She’d just started combing through her 
achievements and boxes. She didn’t seem to have gotten anything 
noteworthy except one item. Her boss box contained an Enchanted Fur 
Brush of the Ecclesiastic that worked in a similar fashion to my pedicure 
kit. As long as someone brushed her for ten minutes every night, she’d 
receive an extra two points to her constitution for 30 hours. It was better 
than nothing, but even with the buff, her constitution was only four. 

“She’ll explain who she is when she gets here,” Mordecai said. He 
leaned forward and whispered in my ear. “Do not upset this woman. She 
has a lot of power over your fate.” 

I swallowed. I had a feeling this wasn’t going to be a good thing. 

“I have several questions,” I said, settling into the chair. 

Mordecai settled uncomfortably across from me. Before, the chairs had 
been too big for him. Now they were too small. “Let’s hear it.” 

“You said it’d probably be ten days, but it’s six,” I said. 

“Is that a question?” Mordecai asked. He shrugged. “This is the first 
time I’ve ever seen it lower than the maximum. The minimum is one day 
longer. They gave a reason in the last announcement. That’s all I can say 
about that.” Mordecai lifted his eyes, looking up at the ceiling. 

“Can viewers see us in this room?” I asked. 

“Yes,” Mordecai said. “Like I said before, the only place they can’t 
follow is in restrooms. They can only hear or see you, however. Not me. 
Only those with press credentials can see or hear me. Those like Odette. 
Most people know this and only watch if you have a good loot box to 
open.” 

Shit. I hadn’t thought about that. Before, Mordecai had been more 
forthright, but we also hadn’t been under a crazy amount of scrutiny, either. 
Getting straight answers out of him was now going to be more difficult. 

“Do you know who Damien is?” 

Mordecai looked as if I’d just slapped him. “Who told you that name?” 
he hissed. “Did Odette tell you about him?” 


“Whoa,” I said, holding up my hands. “Not Odette. It was a mob. A 
fairy. She called for him just before we killed her.” 

Mordecai relaxed. “Those damn fairies. They’re always getting 
themselves in trouble. Damien is a location manager. Each ‘City’ area has 
one. There are only three for this floor. He is my manager’s manager. 
You’re not supposed to see or know about him. I’m only allowed to tell you 
about this sort of stuff if you ask directly.” 

We spent some time talking about the borough boss fight and the last 
fight with Krakaren. I asked him what her weakness was, and he smiled, 
telling me he wasn’t allowed to say, which really told me my theory was 
correct. It wasn’t the last we’d see of that particular boss. 

I asked him about Agatha, about them editing her out of the boss battle. 
He waved it off. “They probably didn’t want to confuse the narrative.” 
Again, I could sense there was more there. I tried not to let my frustration 
show. 

I told him my theory about how they were combining real aliens with 
earth stereotypes. 

Mordecai looked equally frustrated. He paused, as if thinking hard. 
“That’s mostly correct. Again, it’s not really something I can discuss. But 
this isn’t exactly some big secret, either. Some of these monsters are made 
by AI, some are simply the actual creatures from their world—the tusklings 
and the Ball of Swine, for example. And some, like you’ve deduced, are 
created by a team of writers. Like with anything that’s been put together by 
a team, what you end up with can vary wildly. Those llamas, for example. 
They are unique to your planet, and I don’t recall anything in your culture 
that suggests they should be anthropomorphized as drug-dealing gang 
bangers. Someone just thought it’d be an interesting combo. Not everything 
will be social commentary.” 

“Its usually just stupid,” I muttered. 

“Its entertainment,” Mordecai said, once again reminding me of 
something Odette said. There was a much deeper story there, between those 
two. I wondered if I’d ever learn. 

“Also, I’ve been meaning to ask you about this tattoo on my neck,” I 
said. “The Desperado Club.” 

“Nope,” Mordecai said. “Off limits. You’ll learn about the third floors 
soon enough. Sorry. Now, you better open your boxes before Zev gets here. 


Once she’s here, the cameras will turn off. Cameras will always turn off 
when kua-tin are around.” 

Shit. “Okay,” I said, opening up my folder. 

My IED and Explosives Handling and several other explosives-based 
skills had leaped to seven thanks to my creation of the Carl’s Jug O’ Boom. 
I also received a pretty strange achievement: 

New achievement! Dungeonpreneur. 

You have invented a stackable weapon, device, or potion. You will 
be memorialized for eternity with your name in the Dungeon Codex. 
Just don’t let it go to your head, Elon. 

Reward: For every kill made with this device by other crawlers, you 
will receive a single gold coin. If you survive the dungeon, you will 
continue to receive this benefit—even during future seasons—at the 
current gold to credit exchange rate for the remainder of your natural 
life. Our lawyers made us put that last part in, but between you and 
me, we both know you’re going to die, and we’re going to keep using 
your hard work for our own benefit. 

Interesting. It was too bad nobody else would ever use these things. The 
main ingredient—the jug of moonshine—was probably pretty rare. And 
those jugs were more valuable when they were left unaltered. 

I received a bunch of the usual stuff plus a couple hundred gold coins, 
bringing our hoard to just over 1,000 coins. I went over it all. More potions 
and torches and biscuits. I had enough food now to feed an army for a 
month straight. I received a couple goblin boxes and took in more 
dynamite, smoke bombs, and lighters. I received a bronze crowd control 
box and added two scrolls of Confusing Fog. This time, I would give them 
both to Donut. 

I opened the boss box. 

Don’t say anything. Don’t say anything out loud. 

I couldn’t help it. I looked up at the ceiling. 

“Really? Fucking really?” 

Behind me, Mordecai laughed, but a moment later he added, “Whoa, 
that’s actually a really good prize.” 

It was a white pair of boxers covered in little red hearts. 

“Goddamnit,” I muttered as I examined them. 

Enchanted BigBoi Boxers. 


Have you ever read an Incredible Hulk comic and thought to 
yourself, everything rips off of his body except his pants? No way. Well, 
spoiler alert. You’re not wrong. Size-altering and were-creatures, such 
as the BigBoi are required to wear enchanted, self-sizing items lest they 
wish to turn the dungeon into a nudist colony when they transform. 
That means everything they wear requires an enchantment. 
Everything, including their naughty little undies. 

+ 2 to Constitution 

Wearer may cast a level 15 Protective Shell once every 30 hours. 

“Don’t look,” I said, and I pulled my scorched and threadbare boxers off 
and slipped the new ones on. The old ones fell apart in my hands. The first 
thing I did was open the spell menu, find Protective Shell, and move it to 
my hotlist. 

Protective Shell 

Picture yourself in high school. Now picture all the girls who would 
never get anywhere near you. It’s kind of like that, but on purpose. 

Cost: This is an item-based spell. This spell does not require mana 
to cast. If you unequip the associated item, you will lose access to this 
spell. The cooldown will not reset. 

Target: a 3-meter radius sphere centered around the right hand of 
caster + 50 centimeters of radius per level of Intelligence. (Current 
radius: 4.5 meters) 

Duration: 5 seconds + 1 second per level of spell. (Current 
Duration: 20 seconds.) Requires 30-hour cooldown. 

A favorite of frontline tanks and castle guards, the expensive and 
rare Protective Shell spell shields the caster and anyone within the 
sphere from a mob’s physical presence or physical attacks. This spell 
does not protect against magic or against non-corporeal entities. Unlike 
the more popular Shield spell, this spell does not move with you. This 
spell’s area of effect remains static once cast, unimpeded by your 
physical surroundings. So if you use this spell only when you really, 
really need it, you’re probably only delaying the inevitable by a few 
seconds. 

“I had that spell during my crawl,” Mordecai said. “It saved me more 
than once. It has a fantastic secondary effect. Since the spell doesn’t move 
once cast, you can...” 


Warning: You may not wield your weapons while in the presence of 
Admins. Any attempted violence against an Admin will result in your 
immediate execution. 

The stern message came out of nowhere, and it was spoken in a 
different voice than any one I’d heard before. Like with the boss battles, it 
wasn’t voiced in my head, but over an unseen loudspeaker. 

Donut immediately jumped to my shoulder. 

There was a loud pop, and a new creature appeared in the room, 
standing in a puddle right in front of me. 

A kua-tin. 


OceanofPDF:com 


[ 36 ] 


ALL OF MY MENUS DISAPPEARED. My ENTIRE HUD SNAPPED OFF. IT WAS 
just like it had been when we’d been transported up to the production boat 
floating on the surface. 

I just stared at the person, uncomprehending for several seconds. Are 
you kidding me with this shit? 

It was a kua-tin. A female kua-tin. An actual representative from the 
Borant Corporation. I remembered the massive carving of the fish creature 
on the doors, and I compared it to this beast. Before, I’d seen similar sea 
creatures in the audience at the taping of Odette’s show. I now knew that 
those were not kua-tin. Those people were very different. And while the 
gigantic relief carvings on the doors did an adequate job portraying the 
aquatic race’s features, it left one important detail out. 

This kua-tin stood about two feet tall. She was barely tall enough to 
reach my knee. I examined the woman’s properties. 

Zev —  Borant Corporation Assistant Communications 
Representative. 

This is a Dungeon Admin. 

That was it. No additional information, no snarky AI talking about 
mudskippers. 

It took me several moments to take in her outfit. 

Zev looked like an astronaut from a 1950s sci-fi comic. She wore a 
round, glass helmet filled with water. A pair of tubes snaked from the back 
of the helmet to a bulky backpack. The water bubbled like she was in a 
portable fish tank. The rest of her humanoid fish body was hidden inside of 


a white, mesh spacesuit. The whole getup was half space-age, half old- 
school deep diving suit. 

“Good evening, ma’am,” Mordecai said, standing straight. 

“Hello, Mordecai,” the fish woman said, her voice amplified through a 
little speaker on her outfit. “It’s nice to finally meet you face-to-face.” 

There was something about the woman that suddenly made Mordecai 
visibly relax, but I couldn’t tell what it was. There might have been an 
exchange I couldn’t hear. I just didn’t know. Even Donut seemed to notice. 
The cat kept looking back and forth between the tiny fish and the large 
guildmaster. 

“Ma’am, I must say. I haven’t seen one of these water suits in 
centuries,” Mordecai said, walking around the woman. “Most kua-tin wear 
rebreathers around their necks. You can barely see them.” 

“Tve been assured the armor of this device is second to none. If one of 
my fellow employees wishes to enter this godsforsaken place without any 
proper armor, then that is on them.” 

“Ma’am, I don’t want to sound rude. But can you move in that thing?” 
Mordecai asked. 

“No,” she admitted. “Not really. If you must know, this is my first foray 
into a dungeon, and I wanted to be safe.” 

“So you’re really here,” I said. I resisted the urge to reach down and tap 
on the glass. 

“Yes,” she said, looking up at me. “Other corporations may utilize holos 
for their training guilds and admins, but Borant prefers a more fins-on 
approach.” 

“You know you’re in no danger while you’re in a safe room,” Mordecai 
said. “The mobs know not to attack you. And the AI negates all attacks 
inside of safe areas. Unless you’re planning on going for a stroll, ma’am, I 
wouldn’t worry about it.” 

“Yeah, well tell that to those twelve workers in Site Prep. Did you see 
this morning’s update? They were swallowed whole! Or that human admin 
who didn’t realize the no-urinating-in-the-dungeon rule applied to 
everyone. They said all that was left was splatter on the floor.” 

I had no idea what was going on with this exchange, but Zev seemed to 
realize she was talking in front of a pair of crawlers. She returned her gaze 
up at us. 


“Anyway, I wanted to do a meet and greet with you two,” Zev said. 
“This will only take a quick crutch of your time.” 

“I don’t know what that means, but go ahead,” I said. 

“My name is Zev, and I work within the Borant Corporation’s 
communications department. I am a liaison between Borant and privately- 
owned and operated programs who wish to ren... borrow crawlers for their 
shows. We have identified several individuals and teams who have gained 
early popularity. As is probably no surprise to you, you two are on that list.” 

On my shoulder, I felt Donut’s claws sink deep into me. The cat was 
shuddering with pleasure. 

“We’ve already been on one show,” I said. “Dungeon Crawler After 
Hours with Odette.” 

“Yes,” she said. “I am aware. Certain production companies are allowed 
to pluck crawlers away between stairwells. But if they want to transport 
crawlers to their sets at any other time, after boss battles for example, they 
must arrange it through our office. Usually these requests are granted 
automatically, but once crawlers reach a certain level of notoriety, the 
number of requests can become a bit overwhelming. We generally don’t 
want our crawlers to leave the game more than twice a floor. As you’ve 
already received over two dozen interview requests from this most recent 
boss battle alone, you have automatically been entered into the Crawler 
Assisted Outreach Program. In other words, you’ve been assigned a PR 
Agent. Me.” 

“You’re our agent? Our PR agent? You get us gigs?” Donut asked, voice 
full of wonder. 

“That’s right,” Zev said. “From now on, all interview and panel requests 
will filter through me. I have opened up a special chat channel so I can send 
you messages through your interface.” Zev looked about distastefully. 
“Also, they make me come down here and talk to you directly after 
interviews for a debriefing.” 

“This is absolutely fabulous,” Donut said. “Can we provide advance 
riders? Like with makeup and green room requirements?” 

“How about a more important question,” I asked. “Can we refuse 
interviews? Last time we didn’t have much of a choice.” 

She nodded. “I will always ask you before whisking you away. But,” 
she leaned in, and her entire outfit creaked ominously, “Odette has already 
contracted with our office. She gets first right of refusal for each floor 


opening. You’re already locked into those interviews, and as long as you 
keep your numbers up, you will go on her show. That means Pll try to 
schedule one additional interview for each floor down. You can refuse what 
show you go on, but I’m afraid you’ll be obligated to pick something. We 
might move to three interviews for the lower floors depending on how it’s 
going and whether or not the party keeps insisting on accelerating the game. 
And if you survive, of course. But whatever happens, I promise I will do 
my best to get you quality gigs.” 

“What about now?” Donut asked. “Do you have something for us 
now?” 

“Yes,” she said. “There are a few options, but for this first one, I went 
ahead and chose a program for you. It’s a little less serious than Odette’s 
show, but it will hit a demographic that you aren’t yet trending in. Plus it’s a 
round-table style discussion, and in this program all crawlers get a parting 
gift. Sometimes it’s a joke, but it’s usually something useful.” 

“A gift?” Donut said. “Carl, we get a gift!” 

“Wait, are we doing this now?” I asked. 

“No,” Zev said. “Pll ping you when it’s time. It’ll be at minus six plus 
one full.” 

“Minus what?” I said. I felt a sudden, unexpected wave of rage at the 
fish woman. It came out of nowhere, and I didn’t know what set it off. She’s 
just a goddamned pawn like everyone else. It’s not her fault. Still, I couldn’t 
help it. She was a kua-tin. The enemy. The real enemy. And I couldn’t do 
anything about it. Take a deep breath. “We don’t understand your time 
reference.” 

She sighed. “Six hours before the next recap episode. Not the one 
tonight, but the next one. So, in about forty hours. Since you’ll be doing 
your Odette interviews between floors, I figured it’d be best to schedule 
your second appearance right in the middle of the floor’s timer. It’ll keep 
interest up. Also, you should try to line up a major boss battle right as the 
floor closes like you did last time. That really worked in your favor.” 

That rage, which I thought I had successfully held back, bubbled up and 
out. “Goddamnit. God fucking damnit,” I said. Mordecai raised his hands in 
alarm, rapidly shaking them, trying to get me to stop. I didn’t care. “We are, 
quite literally, fighting for our lives here. We are not willing participants, 
and I am getting sick of pretending we are. We are going on these fucking 
interviews not because we want to, but because we have to.” The fish 


looked up at me through her helmet, eyes wide. “Zev, ma’am, whatever the 
hell I’m supposed to call you so you don’t send a lightning bolt up my ass, I 
don’t want to get in trouble with you or Borant or the Syndicate or whoever 
else is running this bullshit. I am doing what you have asked. I am killing 
monsters, trying to level up, trying to survive. I will smile, and I will joke, 
and I will put a proper face on when I go on these shows. But, fuck. You 
have already taken everything from us. Do not ask us to give more than 
what we have. We are not going to fight or survive on your schedule.” 

I sat there, my chest heaving, glaring down at the fish. The world 
seemed frozen. Mordecai looked terrified. Donut, who remained on my 
shoulder, butted her head against the side of my own. She purred, a deep, 
silent rumbling. Her reaction surprised me. 

But not as much as Zev’s reaction. 

“Look,” she said, after a moment. “I know. Okay? Nobody in this room 
is an idiot.” She pointed at Mordecai. “The moment I appeared, he was 
terrified of me. Once he saw I wasn’t wearing a party badge, he relaxed. 
When I’m done here, I go back down to the production headquarters, and I 
will have to face my boss who is a member of the party. If I do or say the 
wrong thing, my entire family will be wiped from the universe. You’re 
going to go out there and face mobs who know people like you are 
prowling the halls, trying to find and kill them. They, the sapient ones? 
They live in constant fear of you guys. We are all parts of the same, 
inexorable machine. All of us are afraid. Yes, your place in this really sucks. 
It’s not fair. You know it. I know it. The cat knows it. But believe it or not, I 
am on your side. The better you do, the longer you survive, the better I do. 
So when I tell you that you should do something, you best listen because I 
know what I’m talking about.” 

Nobody moved or said anything for several seconds. We just stood 
there, looking at one another. 

“This is just like that scene in season three of Gossip Girl when Chuck 
and Blair break up over the hotel,” Donut said. 

I turned to regard the cat on my shoulder, and I burst out laughing. I 
couldn’t help it. It wasn’t funny. I’d never watched that damn show. Yet I 
laughed, and I had a hard time stopping. 

“No it’s not,” Mordecai said a moment later. “How do you even get that 
from this?” 


Zev turned her fish gaze to my cat, then Mordecai. “I can’t believe it. 
You two have watched Gossip Girl? Nobody on my team has watched 
anything, except that old show COPS and Judge Judy. We’ve been stuck 
here for 15 solars with nothing for entertainment but earth-based programs, 
and I’ve had nobody to talk to about them.” 

“Oh, Honey,” Donut said, jumping down from my shoulder to sit next to 
the fish. “I have seen everything. Season five, the car accident?” 

“No, stop, you’re going to make me cry,” Zev said, waving her fish 
arms. I thought, fish can cry? They started rapidly talking with one another 
about the show. Bea used to sit up and re-watch the series over and over 
again. She’d clutch onto Donut and sob every time. 

“That was dangerous,” Mordecai whispered to me as Donut and Zev 
continued to talk. “She’s about as low-level as you can get and still be an 
Admin, but you need to control your temper. She has the power to end you. 
All kua-tin are dangerous, party members or not.” 

“What the hell is the party?” I asked, also whispering. We both took a 
few steps back. He was right about my temper. I rarely lost it. But that 
didn’t matter right now. This was a rare opportunity, the ability to talk to 
Mordecai with nobody else listening. 

“It’s a political party. They’re called the Bloom. Now everyone just 
calls it the Party. Ultra-nationalism. The closest thing you have in your 
history is maybe Axis Japan with a good splash of Nazi Germany thrown in, 
but even that’s not quite right,” he said. “When I signed my indentureship 
contract, the Bloom represented less than 15% of the votes. Now they 
control the whole kua-tin system government. They’ve run it into the 
ground. The whole system is bankrupt. They’ve recently started requiring 
all kua-tin to wear a badge indicating if they’re members or not.” 

“Jesus,” I said. 

“Listen carefully,” Mordecai said, looking nervously down at Zev. “We 
don’t have time to get into the details, but Borant is being forced by their 
own government to end the game as quickly as possible. You need to be 
especially careful not to upset them.” 

“I don’t understand,” I said, alarm rising. “I thought they started it early 
to stave off a bankruptcy seizure action or whatever. That’s what Odette 
implied. Wouldn’t they want to keep it running as long as possible?” 

He nodded. “That’s what everyone thought at first. They’re doing a cash 
grab with the new patron system, but they don’t get that money, or any 


money, from the advertising or the tourism funds or elite monster 
sponsorship or anything else until the season is over. They need that cash as 
soon as possible. But they also first need to raise enough. Their whole 
system is balancing on a wire. They need the game to be entertaining and 
profitable, but they also need it to finish much more quickly than usual. The 
committee has already issued a warning, putting Borant on notice over the 
‘bugs’ that keep occurring, like the issue with the bathrooms and the 
overpowered mobs. One too many violations, and Borant could lose 
everything. There are protections in place, plus there is push-back within 
the company itself. But the kua-tin government is working extra hard to get 
you killed.” 

“That’s just wonderful,” I said. Zev looked up at me, as if surprised I 
was still in the room. Mordecai saw this and took a few steps away. 

“T think it’s time for us to get back out there,” I said to Donut. “We need 
to finish clearing this quadrant out, and then we need to escort team 
Meadow Lark to the stairs. I want to get it done before the next recap 
episode.” 

“We will talk more later,” Donut said to Zev. 

“Or, we can talk over chat!” Zev said. The fish’s demeanor had 
completely changed. “Tell me you’ve watched Riverdale.” 


Donut gasped. 
“Nope,” I said, reaching down to scoop the cat up. “You two will talk all 
night.” 


“Wait one crutch. I have to leave before you can,” Zev said as I put my 
hand on the door handle to the dungeon. “It’s the rules. I’ll ping you 
regarding the next interview.” And without further fanfare, she disappeared 
with a pop. Water splashed over my feet as she disappeared. 

“There’s more I want to discuss,” I said to Mordecai. All of our menus 
snapped back on, the HUD flickering like a booting-up computer. I pulled 
at the door. “But it is getting late. We’ll be...” I trailed off as I glanced at the 
minimap. Why had the map changed color? 

The door opened all the way, and a waist-high pile of grubs fell into the 
room. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 37 ] 


MORDECAI SHRIEKED IN RAGE. “OUT! OUT OF MY ROOM!” HE KICKED AT 
the monsters, punting them like oversized footballs out into the hallway. 

“Gah,” I cried, jumping back. “Why aren’t they teleporting away?” 

“They won’t until they attack,” he said. “Not on their own, at least.” He 
was scooping them up by the armfuls, tossing them back out into the hall. 
But it was useless. For every two he tossed out, four more got in. 
Eventually he gave up and slammed the door, trapping several dozen in the 
room. He waved his hand, and they all disappeared. He wiped his hands on 
his fur. “There.” 

There were hundreds of them in the hallway. Thousands of them. I just 
stared, dumbfounded. They kept coming and coming. 

They’re following us, I realized. Where the hell were they coming from, 
though? Up until now, it had seemed all the dungeon’s monsters were pre- 
seeded. Once we killed all the monsters in an area, that was it. The area was 
safe. These guys were being spawned somewhere nearby. They had to be. 

I leaned against the door and zoomed out the map to view the whole 
neighborhood. Thousands more of them were crawling their way toward us. 
They seemed to be coming from the south, from a direction we hadn’t yet 
explored. The hallway with the stairs wasn’t yet infested. But it would be 
soon. 

“What the hell is this?” I asked Mordecai. 

“T’ve never seen anything like this, not on the second floor,” Mordecai 
said. His eyes had gone glossy, which I recognized as him searching 
through his special menu. “Yup, as I suspected.” He looked at me, his 
shaggy face looking grim. “They’re being spawned.” 


“Yeah, no shit,” I said. 

“Every floor has a waste disposal system,” he continued. “So far you’ve 
seen rats and the grubs. The more dead bodies they eat, the stronger they 
get. It’ll be something different the next floor down. They’re supposed to 
home in on corpses, but if none are nearby, they’ll hunt crawlers. That’s 
what they’re doing. These guys don’t attack, but they’ II still swarm at ya.” 

“But why are there so many of them?” 

“Tt looks like the system is spawning anywhere between one to 15 of 
them when a corpse is created. It usually doesn’t do that unless there aren’t 
any janitor mobs nearby. You killed a lot of mobs in that last battle, so here 
they are.” 

“We didn’t kill that many! Plus, we’ve been destroying the corpses.” 

“They probably had a couple hundred grubs in that cage in the boss 
room,” Mordecai said. He paused. “Yes, there were 750 of them. All fried. 
Plus you killed another 85 clurichauns between grinding away and the boss 
battle. Destroying the corpses only keeps them from leveling up. It doesn’t 
stop them from being generated. You, my friends, have been set up. You’ve 
fallen into a trap. Good news is they’re easy to kill. The bad news is these 
little buggers don’t give any experience. At least not the level-two ones.” 

“Wait,” I said. “This even works on themselves? So for every grub we 
step on, 15 more will appear?” 

“Sort of,” he said. “There’s a per-quadrant limit. If you kill all 5,000 of 
the grubs out there, 75,000 aren’t going to appear.” 

“Do you know what the limit is?” I asked, looking at the map. The 
entire area blinked red, centered on us. 

“Uh, yeah,” he said. “You’ve already hit it. It’s 5,000.” 

Fucking hell. “Is it like this everywhere? Across the whole dungeon?” 

“Tt looks like it,” Mordecai said. “It’s to keep people from camping out 
in one area for too long. As long as you keep moving, it shouldn’t be an 
issue.” 

Carl: Brandon, can you see this? 

We'd set up the chat, but we hadn’t really used it yet. 

Brandon An: Loud and clear. You guys doing okay? 

Carl: We have an issue. It’s not a huge deal yet, but it will be soon. 
Let’s get your folks moving toward the stairs now. We’ll meet you in 
the hallway outside this quadrant. 


Brandon An: 10-4. We’re on our way. Wait until you see what we 
built. 

They were barely 3/4's of a mile away, but with that crowd, it’d take a 
couple hours at least for them to get set up. 

“Come on, Donut,” I said. “We need to carve a hole back to the other 
team. At least these bastards are all the level-two grubs.” 

Even Donut cringed the moment I said that out loud. 


We started by tossing firebombs in the halls, then moving forward, but after 
a while I realized it was just a waste of good moonshine. The level twos by 
themselves were literally harmless. I could pick one up and put it on my 
lap, and it didn’t do anything. They were large with scary-looking 
mandibles, but they didn’t bite or attack or anything. They just sort of 
squeaked and wriggled. And for every one we killed, we were just 
generating another. Plus, if we didn’t properly destroy the body, we were 
increasing the chance of getting these guys to level up. 

The problem was they were so thick in some places, it was impossible 
not to step on them with my bare feet, crunching them down. I tried my best 
to avoid them, but for every one I killed, I smeared down with my foot, 
crunching until the X went away on the map. The moment it died, its 
friends all turned on it, taking bites from its body. Even when I completely 
destroyed it, they continued to chew and lap up the remains. I took that as 
an ominous sign. 

If had to step on more than two or three grubs in a hallway, I tossed a 
boom jug in behind us. Better safe than sorry. 

“This is taking forever,” Donut complained from my shoulder. 

“We’re almost there,” I said, pushing a grub away with my foot. This 
last hallway was mostly clear. Only forty or so of them. Brandon and crew 
were making record time, he said. They were almost at the rendezvous. 

Once we hit the main hallway, we were all going straight to the 
stairwell. I plotted a path starting a few alleyways north, so we only needed 
to get them through a pair of grub-infested intersections. As long we moved 
relatively quickly, this would work. 


And once they were down the stairs, we’d carve our way north, 
punching back into the neighborhood with the danger dingoes and kobolds. 
From there we’d head back to the saferoom, watch the evening’s show, 
sleep, and then hop on the Chopper and spend the rest of the time grinding 
away in different neighborhoods until it was time to hit the stairs. Hopefully 
we'd find a different exit, but if not, we’d come back and firebomb our way 
to the stairwell here. 

Donut: CARL, PEOPLE ARE GETTING BORED WITH THIS! 
MY FOLLOWERS HAVEN’T GONE UP IN FIVE MINUTES. 

Carl: For fuck’s sake, Donut. Don’t worry. I’m sure something 
awful is going to happen any second. 

We exited out into the main hallway. The moment we did, the grubs 
behind us seemed to lose interest in following. They just stopped, settling 
down. It was creepy as hell. 

I saw the wall of blue dots coming down the hallway. It looked as if it 
was all of them, so we went jogging toward them. I stopped and laughed the 
moment I saw the parade. 

Imani and Chris were both wearing leather straps across their chests that 
I recognized as pig harnesses from the tuskling courtesans. They strained as 
they pulled all of the others behind them. 

They’d built a parade float. That’s what it looked like. They’d taken the 
wheels from multiple wheelchairs that no longer had owners and affixed 
them to long pieces of wood. I had no idea where the wooden platforms had 
come from, but I knew Imani and Chris both were as obsessive about 
looting everything as I was. Using some of the goblin tools, they’d hobbled 
together the contraption. 

Looking more closely, it was more like a train or a set of rollercoaster 
cars. There were a total of 39 people being pulled, most of them sitting 
upon their own chairs, which sat locked in place, two by two. The ones who 
normally used walkers sat cross-legged on the boards, watching wide-eyed 
as they were pulled along. The giant centipede was ten cars long, and each 
section held four people. The individual cars were attached to one another 
by a set of glowing metal chains. The same chain attached Chris and Imani 
to the rest of the train. It seemed it was one chain, running from Chris, 
through all the cars and back up to Imani, about 300 feet long. 

“Its more maneuverable than it looks,” Brandon said, jogging up. “We 
made it from the safe room to the hallway easily. Chris says once they get 


going, he barely feels the weight. The only problem is that the cars are too 
wide to fit through the safe room doors, so we have to stage it all in the 
hallway. There were a lot of those grubs, but we ran right over them.” 

“Where’d you get that chain?” 

“Imani had a scroll called Yog’s Special Chain or something like that. 
She just got it from some Gold box, I don’t know what for. She could pick 
any length up to something crazy, like 1,000 feet. It’s light as a feather, but 
the chain only lasts for 30 hours. This whole thing was her idea, though 
Brandon designed it. He even added ramps so they can get on and off 
easily.” 

“Hey, you have an extra star by your name,” I said. 

He nodded. “You know the Mind Horrors? The floating brain things? 
Yolanda, Chris, and I went to clear them out. I remembered what you said 
about needing to train, so I figured we better. Yolanda would shoot them 
from down the hallway, deflating them before they could hurt us. The boss 
room was this abandoned warehouse thing. The boss was a giant blimp. We 
took it out pretty easily thanks to Yolanda. That’s also where we got all this 
wood.” 

“Did it come out of its room?” I gave him a quick recap of what had 
happened with Krakaren. 

“Christ, dude. Our boss battle was much easier. It never left his lair.” 

They were lucky to be alive, but I was glad they’d spent the time 
training themselves. Yolanda was now level nine, equal with both the 
brothers. Imani was still level 11, and she didn’t have the extra bronze star. 

“Imani didn’t go with you?” I asked. 

“No,” Brandon said. “Someone had to stay with the residents.” 

“Any sign of Agatha?” I asked. 

“Not a one,” he said. “But with these grubs, I’m not surprised. They 
devour everything. We saw a few level threes on our way up here.” 

“Yeah, we need to get moving,” I said. I pointed to an alleyway. “Guys, 
down that way,” I called to Imani and Chris. They nodded and turned. 

“T see a safe room down that way. What’s in there?” Brandon asked. 

“I don’t know,” I said. “We haven’t checked that one out yet.” 

This hallway was only a few meters from the edge of the quadrant. It 
bordered the one with the kobolds, who we hadn’t yet seen. I kept a wary 
eye out for dingoes. Some of the residents clapped their hands with delight 
as we turned into the hallway. Mrs. McGibbons, the one who earlier wanted 


to watch Divorce Court, looked down at me as they passed. She was on the 
very last train car, this one only carrying three riders. She was the only one 
on the platform in a wheelchair. The other two were men with walkers, both 
sitting down. 

The name over the woman said Crawler #12,330,800. “Elle McGib.” 

“Hi Carl,” she said. 

“Hi Mrs. McGibbons. You remembered my name today,” I said, moving 
to walk alongside the train. 

“This reminds me of the tunnel of love,” she said. “Back in my time, my 
Barry and I used to always go to the carnival. We’d eat the cotton candy and 
throw darts at the balloons. We’d go in the tunnel of love. Back then it was 
a boat. I’d let him touch my boobs, but only on the outside of my sweater.” 

I laughed. 

“I loved my Barry, but he wasn’t the prettiest man to look at. If you 
were in the tunnel of love with me, I’d have let you do more than touch 
them on the outside of my clothes.” 

“Uh,” I said. “Thank you?” I couldn’t think of a better response. The old 
woman cackled. Behind her, Yolanda barked with laughter. 

“You’ve been hit on twice now,” Donut said. “Once by a meth-addled 
goblin shaman and once by Abraham Lincoln’s grandmother. I can’t wait to 
see who you attract next. Five gold coins says it’s some sort of bog witch 
with a beard.” 

Yolanda had told me earlier that this woman was 99 years old. I looked 
up at her. Ninety-nine years. She’d lived an entire life. Had a husband, 
whom she’d clearly loved. It seemed obscene that she’d be here in this 
place. I thought of the others who’d spent their final hours in a safe room, 
singing. We should have made them all stay. This isnt a kindness, keeping 
them safe. 

Donut jumped from my shoulder and landed on the woman’s lap. The 
cat’s crupper and butterfly talisman jingled when she landed. 

“Oh, hello pretty kitty,” the woman said. She started petting the cat. 
Donut purred loudly. 

“Bring that pussy over here,” one of the men said. He laughed lewdly. 
The man seemed even older than Mrs. McGibbons. He wore a Bengals hat 
too small for his bulbous head. 

“Don’t be crude, Jack,” Yolanda said. 


I moved forward to walk alongside Brandon, Chris, and Imani, keeping 
my eye on the map. Yolanda kept up the rear, walking with her bow at the 
ready. “We’re taking a left two intersections down, right past that safe 
room. We’ll have to cross through an infested area, but I’ ll firebomb it.” 

The mass of red dots was already starting to shift toward us. Thankfully 
they were painfully slow. I could take a nap before they’d reach this hall. 

“Carl, thank you,” Brandon said. “You are helping us to your own 
detriment. You are a good man.” 

I smiled. “If we get to the point where we don’t help each other 
anymore, that’s when we stop being human.” I felt something catch in my 
throat, and I coughed. 

Zev (Admin): Carl, that was great. Can you say that for me again, 
but this time, don’t cough. 

I stopped dead. My neck tingled with goosebumps. I knew we were 
being watched and followed, but having someone actually comment in my 
mind was one of the most unnerving sensations I’d ever felt. 

Carl: Are you kidding me with this? No, I’m not going to say it 
again. Have you been watching this whole time? 

Zev (Admin): You and my other clients. This save-the-elderly 
storyline is playing great with most viewers. That said, about 20% of 
the focus group thinks you’re wasting time and being stupid. “Dead 
weight,” I think was the term some of them have used. But most of 
them understand what you’re doing. Donut is right, however. It’s a 
little dry. Maybe you can... Oh shit, oh fuck. Carl, Donut. Run. Run to 
the safe room now. 

“No, Jack, Jack, no!” Yolanda called. 

I turned to see Jack, Cincinnati Bengals hat sitting cockeyed on his 
head. He’d stood to his full height, using the wheelchair with Mrs. 
McGibbons and Donut as a brace. His pants were down to his ankles, dick 
out, pissing directly on the wall. 


OceanofPDE.com 


— 
YW 


THE NEXT SEVERAL SECONDS SEEMED TO HAPPEN IN SLOW MOTION. DONUT 
was the first to react. She jumped up, claws out, as if she meant to 
decapitate the elderly man. She pulled back at the last moment, instead 
pushing off his shoulder and sailing through the air, flying until she landed 
three platforms down. 

Yolanda also reacted, just a fraction of a moment behind Donut. She 
didn’t pull her attack. An arrow sprouted from the side of Jack’s skull, 
pinning the hat to his head. She’d been forced to shoot him, but it didn’t 
matter. She’d reacted too late. The now-dead man fell off the trailer and to 
the ground, still pissing in death. The curved pee stain on the dungeon wall 
started to sizzle and boil. Smoke rose directly from the point of contact. I 
realized I was running, running toward the back of the train. Behind me, 
Brandon shouted. The safe room was only a hundred feet away. Chris and 
Imani were already picking up speed. The second man on the last car, 
Randall, went flying off the train as it lurched forward. He hit the ground 
with a loud, painful crunch, his walker flying over his head just as the 
monster appeared. 

“Holy fuck!” I cried. “Donut, run!” I continued to sprint toward the 
thing. 

Purple and black smoke kept hissing and spitting from the wet stain on 
the wall. The monster coalesced, coming into existence ten feet behind 
Yolanda and Randall, just above the prone form of the now-dead Jack. 
Yolanda hit the monster with two arrows, and the shafts just shattered 


against the smoke. It didn’t even form a health bar, indicating she’d done no 
damage whatsoever. 

The thing was fifteen feet tall and just as wide, made of fulminating, 
sizzling black and purple smoke. It had six legs, each gleaming with 
obsidian claws the size of rakes. The claws seemed to be the only corporeal 
parts of its body. The legs were all the same, but the two forward claws 
were longer, finger-like with extra joints. A flickering, horned skull sat 
amongst the smokey mass, its eyes made of glowing red fire that poured 
smoke. It was the skull of some sort of animal, maybe a colossal badger, but 
with curved, goat-like horns. It roared, and the ground shook. 

Rage Elemental — Level 93 

The first recorded summoning of a Rage Elemental, blah, blah, 
blah. If you are reading this, you likely don’t give a shit about the 
monster’s (rather interesting and tragic) history. You’re probably 
running. It’s not going to matter. The almost-indestructible Rage 
Elemental is said to only dissipate after it has claimed 666 souls. 

In other words, you are fucked. Absolutely, bite-the-pillow, fucked. 

A magic missile bounced off the monster’s head, and a health bar 
appeared for a half-second before disappearing. It’s self-healing. 

I came skidding to a stop as the train rocketed past me. Donut landed on 
my shoulder. She was screaming something about not running unless I ran 
too. Yolanda stood over the fallen form of Randall. The creature was still 
growing, the last of the black and purple mist twirling around it. 

“Fog!” I yelled. Donut, who had read my mind, activated her scroll of 
Confusing Fog at the same moment. 

The monstrosity finished forming just as the wall of fog billowed into 
the hallway. The creature fell to all six legs. The monster spun toward us, 
impossibly fast, its movements cleaving through the cloud like a boat 
cutting through waves. It ripped at the dead form of Jack, and the man’s 
body shredded. It leaped forward, clawing at Yolanda and Randall. 

I never got to know Yolanda Martinez as much as I would’ve liked to. 

But I didn’t have to know her very well to know who she was. I knew 
she was a quiet, sweet woman who’d been a nurse her entire life. She’d 
worked sixty hours a week for years to pay for her son to go to college. Her 
husband had owned a landscaping company. At only 4’11, the woman had a 
presence much bigger than her stature suggested. There was a warmth about 
her, something I’d never felt as a kid. Just being in her presence imparted a 


feeling of longing in me, something difficult to describe. Like I wished I 
could relive my childhood, but this time, I’?d have her as my mother, and 
she would have never, ever left me. 

When the apocalypse came for Yolanda, she didn’t once waver in her 
dedication to her patients. She was quick to laugh, quick to smile. 

And even though Yolanda Martinez was just as terrified as the rest of us, 
she stood her ground against a force she couldn’t possibly hold back. 

She lived her entire life as a hero. She died as one, too. 

One moment they were there, the next they were gone. Through the still 
developing cloud of confusing fog, the monster’s claws ripped forward, 
cutting through the nurse and the elderly man as if they weren’t even there. 
Yolanda’s body disintegrated in a red cloud of ribbon-like flesh like she was 
a knitted sweater that had been unraveled all at once. 

The monster didn’t even break stride, it came for us despite the fog. It 
swung a mighty claw just as I smashed down on Protective Shell. 

The monster flew back, as if it was a charging dog that had reached the 
end of its leash. The transparent, glowing, semi-circle shell spread around 
me, completely filling this section of the hallway, floor to ceiling. 

The rage elemental hissed and squealed with fury as it went flying back, 
skidding. It jumped up, charging again. Its badger head made it through the 
shield, but the moment its giant claws touched the force field, it rebounded 
yet again. It seemed the sharp tips of the monster’s claws couldn’t make it 
through the protection. 

“Holy shit!” I cried. I hadn’t expected that to work. “Run!” Donut 
leaped off my shoulder as I turned and rushed toward the others, who were 
struggling to get everyone into the safe room. The individual cars were too 
wide for the entrance. Imani and Chris were bodily pulling people off their 
chairs and tossing them into the open door. 

The round shield remained firmly in place, and I felt an odd pop in my 
ears as we left its area of effect. The spell was only going to last 20 seconds, 
and I’d already wasted five of them being dumbfounded. 

About halfway to the door, the ground disappeared underneath me. At 
least that’s what I thought had happened, at first. I fell, but I fell upward, 
crashing into the ceiling. A few feet in front of me, Donut flipped in midair, 
deftly landing upside down. 

In front of me, the very last train car flew upward, and the remaining 
resident—Mrs. McGibbons—cried out as she also slammed up into the top 


of the hallway, wheelchair crashing upon her like she’d been dumped face 
first down into a hole. 

My shoulder crunched, but I slammed a health potion before the pain 
could hit me. 

Gravity had been reversed. The elemental had cast the spell, but it 
hadn’t reached all the way to the safe room door. That last platform, 
connected by Imani’s magic chain, remained attached to the rest of the cars, 
and it dangled upward, having dislodged its only remaining rider. 

I didn’t look back. I pulled myself to my feet and kept running, but now 
I was upside-down, running on the ceiling of the hallway. We rushed toward 
the crumpled form of Mrs. McGibbons, who groaned and rolled onto her 
back, feebly pushing the wheelchair off herself. It rolled a few feet forward 
and reached the edge of the spell’s effect. It clattered to the ground. She 
opened her eyes, and upon seeing that she was now stuck to the roof of the 
hallway, she started to cry out in fear. Her health was deep in the red. 

“I got you,” I said, picking her up. I pulled her over my shoulder like a 
sack. 

Ahead of me, Chris and Imani were ushering the last of the residents 
into the room. I could see Brandon just inside the door, moving them out of 
the way. Imani was screaming Yolanda’s name. 

Donut took a step toward the door, and she plummeted off the ceiling, 
also having reached the edge of the spell’s effect. She, once again, landed 
easily. 

“Be careful, Carl!” she called up to me. 

“Get the wheelchairs, then get inside!” I cried as I pulled a health potion 
and shoved it in Mrs. McGibbon’s hand. “Drink this.” 

I anticipated where the line of gravity was, and I tried a desperate flip 
maneuver in an attempt not to be upside down when I fell. It didn’t work. I 
shielded the crying woman’s body as I landed, once again, in a painful heap 
on the ground right next to the wooden platform. I groaned and smashed 
down on my own Heal spell. 

Behind me, the rage elemental roared as the spell dissipated. It rocketed 
down the hall at us, claws raking up stones as it ran. It ran on its four back 
legs and reached forward with its two forward arms, which somehow made 
the beast seem even more horrifying. 

“Shit,” I scrambled to my feet. Donut hit it with another magic missile 
before turning and bolting toward the door. Chris and Imani pulled their last 


resident in. 

I ran. The ground shook as if a locomotive was bearing down on me. 
Ten feet. Five feet. One foot. 

I jumped at the door, banging into the frame and ricocheting inside just 
as the monstrosity’s forward claws swiped at me, missing by millimeters. It 
squealed in frustration, continuing its forward momentum as it slid down 
the hallway. 

I had a quick sense of déja vu, of the goblin murderdozer also missing 
me by inches. 

I handed Mrs. McGibbons to Brandon, pulled a boom jug, and returned 
to the hallway. I lit and tossed it at the backside of the still-turning 
elemental before I jumped back into the room and slammed the door. 

We could hear the monster’s screams through the thick walls. It made a 
sound that was part pain, part rage, part the end of the fucking world. I 
knew there was no way I could’ve really hurt it, but I felt a wave of 
satisfaction at that horrific, penetrating sound. 

A moment later, the door pulsed, creaking worryingly as the elemental 
attempted to get in. It screamed and thrashed and pounded, throwing itself 
against the impenetrable door with all its might. 

“Jesus,” I muttered, reaching down to grab my legs. I closed my eyes, 
unable to get the sight of Yolanda and Randall out of my head. “Jesus,” I 
repeated, out of breath. 

I turned to survey the room. We stood in what appeared to be a dusty, 
no-way-they-passed-the-health-inspection chicken restaurant. Big Shot 
Chicken, the sign said. I’d never heard of it. A Bopca Protector stood 
behind the counter, looking distastefully at the large crowd. 

Mrs. McGibbons hadn’t taken the potion I’d given her, but she still 
clutched it in her hand. I watched as Brandon helped her drink it down. She 
continued to cry as her health rose. 

Most of the residents were on the ground, weeping for help. They’d 
been savagely tossed into the room. Imani, tears on her cheeks, was helping 
them one-by-one to the booths so they could sit and recover, administering 
healing potions to those who needed them. Donut had saved several 
wheelchairs, but there was no way we had enough now. Chris, his head low, 
turned to also help. Donut jumped to my shoulder, and her whole body was 
shaking. 


“Fucking Jack,” Brandon said, growling the words. “He knew. We 
explained it to him.” 

Zev’s message echoed in my head. This was a mistake. Helping these 
people. All we are doing is hindering our own training and delaying their 
inevitable deaths. It would’ve been kinder to have left them on the first 
floor rather than subject them to this terror. 

I looked up at the screens. 

Time to Recap Episode: 1 hour 40 minutes. 

Time to Level Collapse: 4 days, 20 hours. 

Remaining Crawlers: 1,033,992 

“You saved me,” Mrs. McGibbons said, sitting up on the floor. Ninety- 
nine years old. I didn’t think I’d ever met anyone that old before. Not a 
human, at least. “Thank you. Thank you so much.” 

I smiled weakly. “Of course,” I said. 

“Jack was always an ass,” she continued. She made a clucking noise. 
“Poor Yolanda. She was such a good kid. And Randall. Dumb as a pigeon, 
that one. But he deserved better than that. At least it was quick.” 

“Do you think it’s gonna leave?” Donut asked. 

Behind me, the door continued to smash and rock under the onslaught 
of the screaming rage elemental. 


OceanofPDF.com 


Views: 212 Billion 
Followers: 4.4 Billion 
Favorites: 793 Million 


THE RECAP EPISODE STARTED WITH A CLOSE-UP SHOT OF JACK’S PURPLE, 
veined, and uncircumcised dick, huge on the screen. The headline 
screamed, “Trapped! Meadow Lark and The Royal Court of Princess Donut 
in Peril!” 

“Wow,” Donut said. “Yours isn’t nearly that big. Or oily looking. And it 
doesn’t have that hat thing.” 

If looks could kill, the glare Imani shot at the cat would’ve ripped her in 
two. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I muttered before realizing I’d said it. “Not now.” 

The screen showed, in slow motion, Jack pulling it out, turning to the 
wall, and peeing. It switched to Yolanda’s horrified face, then Donut leaping 
for him, claws out. It showed the arrow piercing him right in the temple, of 
the player-killer skull icon slowly starting to form over Yolanda’s head, and 
then the man falling from the platform. 

“I can’t watch this,” Imani said, getting up and turning away. 

A “See what happens next!” appeared on the screen. Then the show 
started. As promised, it was a compilation of people getting surprised by 


bosses leaving their rooms. I noted two different scenes with Krakaren 
bosses. The shots kept coming and coming, of people getting slaughtered. 

I eased back in the chair and took a bite of fried chicken. A part of me 
registered that the food was downright delicious, but I could barely taste it. 
Donut sat at the table being lovingly groomed with her new brush by the 
Bopca Protector. The constitution buff had activated many minutes earlier, 
but she demanded he keep brushing. 

This safe room, like the first one we’d visited, had 20 rooms for rent. 
They were still free on the second level. People slept in all twenty of them. 

Outside, the rage elemental continued to scream and smash at the door. 
It hadn’t let up, not for one second. The thing seemed to have an endless 
supply of energy. 

I already had a plan on how to deal with it. I’d discussed it over chat 
with Donut. I’d have to wait at least a full Syndicate standard day—another 
28 hours—before we’d be able to do it. That was how long the cooldown 
for my Protective Shell spell was. 

The problem was, this plan required us to abandon team Meadow Lark. 
Not just the elderly folks. All of them. I sighed, unable to concentrate on the 
show. 

Zev disappeared off the chat after the skirmish in the hallway. Donut, 
who’d apparently been chatting with her non-stop, was worried about the 
kua-tin. I didn’t care. I was dreading our obligation to go on this talk show. 
We'd have to go onto the show before we left here. 

A wave of grubs descended upon us. I didn’t know what was going to 
happen once they reached the hall with the rage elemental. I was hoping 
perhaps they’d distract the creature, cause it to wander off. I suspected we 
wouldn’t get that lucky, but I had hope. Looking at the map, I guessed we’d 
find out just as the show ended. 

Donut and I both received a pair of achievements after our fight with the 
rage elemental. 


New achievement! What goes up... 

You have been struck with and survived the dreaded Reverse 
Gravity Spell. Well, you fared better than Albert II, the first earth 
mammal to reach space alive. He was a rhesus monkey, in case you’re 
wondering. He went up just fine. He didn’t stick the landing. 


Reward: You can now tell people you’re more durable than a 
monkey named Albert. 


New achievement! Like a Moth to the Flame. 

You attacked and caused damage to a mob that is more than 75 
levels above your own. The fact that you’re reading this suggests you’re 
the luckiest fucker in the dungeon. Just remember, luck goes both 
ways, like your mom. 

Reward: You’ve received a Platinum Lucky Bastard Box! 


Both of us received a similar item in the platinum box. It was a lottery 
scratch-off ticket, just like any scratcher ticket one could buy at a gas 
station or a liquor store. The tickets themselves were different. Donut’s was 
red and green and had a small graphic of a troll-like creature throwing gold 
coins in the air. It was called Dungeon Gold Rush. She had six spots to 
scratch off. She immediately moved to scratch it, but received an error 
message telling her she couldn’t use the ticket in a saferoom. I made her 
hand it over so I could read the description. 

Dungeon Gold Rush! 

Scratch off one spot, and depending on the symbol revealed, your 
next attack against a mob will have varying effects! Guaranteed 
laughs! One hour cooldown between scratches. 

I flipped the little cardboard ticket over, and it revealed about twenty 
different symbols. Most of the results were good, like Mob drops 5,000 
coins or Damage against Mob is doubled. But a few of the symbols 
offered some not-so-good choices. Like Mob splits in two. Or Mob is 
invulnerable for 30 seconds. 

“Yeah, don’t use this,” I said. “Not until we talk about it some. The last 
thing we need is you scratching off a symbol that’ll quadruple the next 
mob’s strength.” 

The cat sighed. “Or, I can scratch off a symbol, and I will get 5,000 
coins, Carl. Why must you always be so pessimistic?” 

“Donut. Like it said, luck goes both ways. We’ll talk about it later.” 


“Fine,” she said. I placed the ticket in front of her, and she huffed as it 
disappeared into her inventory. “What does yours do?” 

My ticket was the same size, but it only had five spots to scratch off. It 
was red on one side and pink on the other. A small, cartoon dragon sat in the 
corner, holding a spoon. The dragon’s tongue was out, licking its lips. I read 
the description. 

Fireball or Custard? 

Scratch off a spot in the midst of battle, and this zany ticket casts a 
spell at the closest red-tagged mob! Each spot has a 50/50 chance. Will 
it cast a level-15 Fireball? Will it cast a glob of delicious, healing 
Strawberry Custard? Who knows! Either way, the results will be a 
hoot! Thirty minute cooldown between scratches. 

“T love custard!” Donut cried after I showed her the ticket. She looked 
up at the Bopca Protector, whose name was Qwist. “Get me custard.” 

“Yes, Princess. Right away, Princess. What flavor?” the Bopca asked. 

Donut had finished the custard by the time the show premiered. She’d 
chosen strawberry, turned her nose up at it, and went with a vanilla. We 
watched now as the disaster porno half of the show ended and the next part 
started. It was nothing new. The African warriors had finally run out of 
ammo. Several were using their AK-47s as clubs, but a few now had bows 
and arrows or swords. Lucia Mar was tearing her way through the dungeon. 
She had four player-killer skulls by her name now, but they didn’t show 
why or how that had happened. 

Interestingly, I noticed for the first time that neither of her rottweilers 
had any skulls or stars by their names. It was because they were pets, I 
realized. Donut had originally been listed as a pet, but she’d transformed 
into a crawler early on. Weird. 

The crossbow-firing Valkyrie woman and her ever-growing crowd of 
female warriors were also killing their way through the dungeon. They’d 
named their group Brynhild’s Daughters. The woman’s name was Hekla, 
and the announcer gave a short history of her home country of Iceland. The 
AI was throwing loot at her to emphasize the Nordic shieldmaiden persona 
she was forming, including a ridiculous, glittering breastplate that seemed 
more apt for the cover of a harem fantasy novel than appropriate dungeon 
armor. 

“She’s amazing,” Donut whispered. “We should hook up with her 
group.” 


“Something tells me I wouldn’t be too welcome,” I said. 

The show ended with a short description of the issues with the 
bathrooms and some bullshit explanation why they had been forced to 
implement the rage elemental trap. 

“Yeah because piss is worse than blood and guts and whatever that is 
that comes out of the grubs,” I said. 

It replayed the scene from the beginning of the episode with Jack 
whipping it out. It continued, showing Yolanda’s death in gruesome, slow- 
motion detail. It showed me flying up to the ceiling, then hopping to my 
feet and running upside-down, Matrix-style. Then me picking Mrs. 
McGibbons up and making it into the room with a millisecond to spare. I 
jumped out of the room brandishing the boom jug. 

The show paused, showing the recipe of the Carl’s Jug O’ Boom. My 
mugshot appeared briefly with Added to the Dungeon Codex stamped 
over it. 

The scene resumed, showing me tossing the jug at the back of the 
monster before slamming the door. Its health plummeted almost 25%. The 
six-legged, black badger skull thing screamed, momentarily stunned by the 
attack. It took a good ten seconds before it recovered, jumping up and 
resuming its attack against the door. It shrieked in ear-splitting fury as it 
healed itself. The healing moved much more slowly, I noted, thanks to the 
napalm-like effect of the boom jug. 

It ended with Donut saying, “Do you think it’s gonna leave?” 

The show snapped off, and nobody said anything. 

“He really did have a weird-looking dick,” Chris said after a moment. 

Imani walked up to him, wrapped her arms against the large man and 
started laughing and crying at the same time. 

Hello Crawlers, 

Short message today. The dungeon is humming along nicely. 
Thanks again for your support. We have a lot of interest already in the 
new patron-bidding program. So please keep up the good work! 

We have a few changes to announce. 

If you’ve watched the recap episode that just aired, you can see our 
penalties regarding the bathrooms have been a rousing success. The 
penalties will remain in place for the remainder of this floor, but I’m 
happy to announce they will be removed upon the collapse of this floor. 
Thank you everyone for your cooperation. 


The Satan’s Lil? Hedgehogs mob have been removed and placed on 
a deeper floor. Their armor-piercing quill attack has been deemed too 
strong for this floor by the system AI. Apologies to all those affected. 
We’ve had a few complaints about the proliferation of the grub mobs. 
This is not a bug and is by design. 

Finally, due to the abundance of Crawlers camping in safe rooms 
upon the collapse of the first floor, we’ve been forced to make a difficult 
decision. From now on, all safe rooms and safe areas will close one hour 
prior to floor collapse. Any Crawler who is in a designated safe area 
will be teleported to just outside that area at one hour prior. 

As always, kill, kill, kill! 

On the message board, a new timer appeared, just below the Time to 
Level Collapse timer. 

Time to Safe Room Closure. It was one hour faster than the level 
timer. 

I met eyes with Brandon, who looked stricken. At that moment I knew 
he’d been thinking the same thing as me, that it was time to just give it up. 

Donut: Our views! Carl, our views! 

Outside, the door stopped bashing itself in. It was oddly quiet. I looked 
up at the minimap. The mass of grubs had reached the hallway, and the 
elemental finally noticed them. It left the door and tore through them as I 
watched. It followed the line of red dots around the corner and disappeared 
down the hallway. I had a moment to think, shit, we should’ve been ready to 
run, but it was over in less than a minute. The thousands of red dots were 
just gone. 

The description stated the elemental dissipated after it claimed 666 
souls, whatever that meant. I was hoping that the grubs counted toward that 
number. 

They didn’t. 

The elemental returned to the door, thrashing and smashing, trying to 
get back in. 

If we had run, it would have followed us. Even if we’d used the 
Chopper, there was no way we’d have gotten away. Not unless we’d split up 
and gone in different directions. And even then, it probably would’ve gotten 
us. 

The map seemed to flicker for a moment, and a long line of Xs appeared 
where the grubs had all died. Already more red dots appeared, moving 


toward their fallen brothers and sisters. 

On the map, near the stairs, just a quarter mile away a group of fifteen 
red dots sat. I hadn’t noticed them before. I hovered over the icons. 

Grub — Pupa Stage. 

A counter, currently at just under 10 hours, was ticking away next to 
their names. 

I remembered the scene from the recap episode. The level 93 mob, after 
Sliding down the hall, had been hurt by my boom jug. It’d taken almost a 
quarter of its life away before it healed itself. 

Then, I remembered something else. It was something Rory the 
shamanka, the one with all the piercings on her face, had told us. I hadn’t 
thought much about it at the time. I looked down at Donut. 

Carl: The plan has changed. We can’t wait for my shield to 
cooldown. 

“Come on, Donut,” I said out loud, pushing a table away in the corner 
of the restaurant. We were going to need a lot of space. 

“What’re you doing?” Brandon asked, standing from his table. 

I pulled a bunch of items from my inventory, piling it on the floor. The 
round free weights clanged loudly as they hit the tiles. 

“I need your help,” I said. 


OceanofPDF.com 


WE STILL HAD SOME CANS OF AGATHA’S SPRAY PAINT, AND I PAINTED 
“Mother of All Bombs” on the side of the contraption. 

It took us about five hours to finish building the launcher. Brandon 
pointed out MOAB actually stood for “Massive Ordnance Air Blast,” but 
his brother said, “Don’t be that guy.” 

“Tt doesn’t matter,” Brandon said. “The name is still wrong. When they 
say ‘Mother of all bombs,’ they mean one giant bomb. Not whatever this 
thing is. You should call it the Bomb Chicken or something.” 

“It’s too late,” I said, indicating the spray paint. “I’ve already named it. 
Besides, I like the name. It’s a play on words.” 

“Well, I’m going to call it the Bomb Chicken whether you like it or 
not,” Brandon declared. 

Pd discovered something interesting while building the device. This 
should’ve been obvious earlier, but it hadn’t even occurred to me. In the 
safe room, all of my sticks of dynamite were harmless. I could pull them 
out, and under status they had Inert While in Safe Room, followed by a 
parenthesis stating their real status. Their status still ticked down while 
being handled, and I didn’t want to tempt fate enough to find out what 
would happen when that status reached zero, but I was relatively certain 
they wouldn’t blow. 

Brandon stepped back now, admiring our work. 

“Do you really think this is going to kill it?” he asked, suddenly serious. 

“Not a chance,” I said. “That thing is level 93. It ain’t going to like this 
too much, but there’s no way it'll be enough. The babies will slow it down, 


though.” 

Brandon gave me a sour look. “If it’s not going to kill it, then why are 
we doing this?” 

“Tt’s all part of the plan,” I said. 

“Wait. What, exactly, is the plan?” he asked. He waved at my 
contraption. “I thought this was the plan.” 

“Like I said, it’s part of it, but it’s not all of it. I can’t tell you the rest,” I 
said, pointing up at the ceiling, which had become the universal gesture for 
“The assholes are listening.” 

Since this scheme involved using a dungeon exploit, I wanted to keep it 
in my head. Even Donut didn’t know the full extent. Mordecai told us that 
the viewers couldn’t see our private chats, but Borant and the dungeon AI 
could. I didn’t want to risk them changing the rules on us at the last second. 

Because that would really suck. Not that I’d live long enough to 
complain about it. 

We needed to get safely into the hallway. So the first component of this 
insane scheme was also one of the most terrifying parts. 

My first suggestion was to wait for the grubs to regroup and get close 
enough for the rage elemental to go hunting them again. But the grubs were 
painfully slow, and more and more of them were hitting the pupa stage, 
meaning they were no longer moving around. 

Imani came up with a bold solution. “Why don’t we just open the damn 
door?” she said. 

This was hours ago, right when we started building the MOAB. 

We all looked at each other. I immediately grasped what she was saying. 
The idea was horrifying, but she was right. We were in a safe room. Mobs 
would teleport away. Not far away, according to Mordecai, but they would 
still be ejected. 

“Well, shit,” I said, putting down my goblin riveter. “Maybe we don’t 
need to build this thing at all.” 

So we tested it. We moved everyone to the other side of the restaurant, 
near the entrance to the sleeping chambers. I didn’t know what was 
trembling more, me or the door. If we were wrong about this... 

I walked up, and I hesitantly reached for the exit. The moment I turned 
the handle, the door burst inward, and a giant claw raked at me, coming at 
my face as I flew back into the room. 


Thwum. The sound of the monster teleporting away was odd, like that of 
an electrical generator turning on. 

“Holy crap, that worked,” I said, sitting up. My eyes searched the map, 
looking for it. I didn’t see it anywhere. 

But a moment later, my relief turned to dread as I saw the dot rocketing 
toward us. It’d come from the main hallway. “Shit, it’s really booking it. It 
remembers where we are.” 

“Keep the door open,” Imani said. “See if the dungeon sends it further 
away this time. Or if it learns.” 

It was maybe 90 seconds before it entered our hallway again. It killed 
any grubs it passed, but it seemed to ignore the ones in the pupa stage. It 
roared and shrieked, came to the door, and once again tried to swipe at me. 

Again, it teleported away. This time it came from another hallway 
down, but it appeared to have still been teleported out into the main 
hallway. We tried it several times. Each time, the elemental took anywhere 
from 75 to 120 seconds to return. It was clear the monster was unintelligent, 
nothing more than the single-minded embodiment of rage. We eventually 
closed the door, not wanting to create any more grub corpses. 

I sighed, going back to work on the MOAB. 

Now, hours later, it was finally time to put my idea to the test. I was less 
confident about this than I was with the whole portable fortress idea. That 
time I knew we faced a mob meant to be killed. This was different. This 
was something meant as a punitive action, a punishment. It wasn’t meant to 
be fair, to be survivable. 

The chopper hummed merrily away, aimed directly at the exit to the 
chamber. With Donut’s sidecar, it was too big to get through the door. We’d 
been forced to remove it. Instead, we added the newly-built bike trailer, 
affixing the tall MOAB to it and adding the equally-tall seat for Donut 
behind the launcher. She’d have to duck in order for us to leave the room. 
She sat there now, facing backward, a look of grim determination on her 
fuzzy face, like a tailgunner in a WWII bomber. 

“T think I like Bomb Chicken better, too,” Donut announced. 

“Too late,” I said. I nodded at Imani, who stood at the door, ready to 
pull it open. 

“Okay,” she said. “TIl count down from three.” 

Donut: EVERYONE IN THE UNIVERSE IS WATCHING THIS. I 
JUST HIT ONE TRILLION VIEWS, CARL. ONE TRILLION. 


“Focus, Donut,” I said, not bothering to use the chat. 

“One!” Imani yanked the door open. The massive, terrifying rage 
elemental lunged, and as always, teleported away. The space where it had 
occupied shimmered, crackling like superheated air. 

I pushed hard on the pedals of the bike, and we rushed into the hallway. 
Everything out here was blackened and turned to ash. It smelled like 
burning garbage, reminding me of the Hoarder’s chamber. There was no 
sign of the train cars or the remaining wheelchairs and walkers that had 
been abandoned. The only thing that had survived was the long, 300 foot 
length of glittering, magical chain, which I had grabbed earlier. 

Behind me, Imani slammed the door. I pedaled down the hall, turning 
the throttle. The trailer was built using broken hunks of wood, and the spare 
chopper wheels we’d looted from the goblins. I could barely feel its weight. 
It squeaked loudly, but it didn’t bounce under the press of the MOAB. We 
passed the nearby intersection and furiously increased speed until we 
reached the next one down, another two hundred meters away. We angled 
ourselves so we faced this new hallway, and we waited. 

“Here it comes,” Donut said a moment later. The dot appeared, and the 
elemental rushed down the distant hall, moving like an earth-destroying 
meteor sent from the heavens. 

“As soon as it rounds the curve, we go,” I said. We had to make sure it 
saw us. If it stopped at the door again, we’d have to loop around to gain its 
attention, using the closer hallway. I didn’t want to do that. The less corners 
we had to take with this trailer, the better. 

Far down the hallway, a little more than a quarter of a mile away, it 
appeared, running full tilt. 

I didn’t have to worry about whether or not it was going to see us. It 
saw. The horned badger skull skidded to a stop, looking in our direction. It 
shrieked with indignation and resumed its gallop, headed straight at us. 

Holy shit that thing is fast. I pumped my legs. 

“Go! Go!” Donut cried. Thanks to my Chopper Pilot skill and the help 
of the throttle, we could reach top speed in seconds. It still felt as if we 
weren’t moving at all. The bike could go about 25 miles per hour before it 
got too hot. The elemental was like a cheetah. Unimpeded, it would run us 
down in seconds. 

We hurtled down the hallway. “Fire the first baby!” I cried. 

Brandon was correct that the title MOAB was misleading. 


The apparatus wasn’t a bomb at all, but a device designed to launch 
bombs. Multiple types of bombs. 

“Tt’s the bombs’ mother,” I’d said. “Get it? And we can name the bombs 
its babies.” 

None of them had been impressed. 

“You need to stick to punching things and blowing them up,” Donut had 
said. “Leave the creative to me.” 

The device wasn’t complicated, but it had to be precisely built, 
especially here with the bumpy hallways. It was little more than a curved, 
ski-jump-like ramp made from a pair of spare-part chopper wheel wells, 
with a pair of half-pipe channels at the end to keep the “babies” steady, and 
tiny, shock-absorbing front-wheelchair coasters for the very end of the 
ramp, keeping the end of the conduit inches from the ground. 

As a kid, I’d had something similar for my matchbox cars. You dropped 
the cars into the top, and gravity took care of the rest. They’d plummet 
down the waterslide-like ramp, gaining speed, hitting the ground at full 
throttle. If you built the ramp correctly, especially the part at the end, the 
cars would ease onto the flat surface, still accelerating by the time they 
were halfway across the room. 

It’d taken us several hours to get this correct. We had very little space to 
test this in, but thanks to the know-how from Brandon and Chris, I was 
confident that the babies would work as intended. 

We knew this monster had at least two attacks. The claws and the 
reverse-gravity spell. We also knew that the gravity spell had a somewhat 
limited range. So in order to get to our destination, we needed to keep the 
elemental far away long enough to get there. 

“Bombs away!” Donut cried. She pulled the wheeled, back-heavy bomb 
from her inventory. It fit perfectly into the grooves, and she gave it a nudge. 
It rocketed down the ramp, hit the ground with a bump, and continued 
straight. From our perspective, it zoomed away. It didn’t rear up like I had 
feared. 

“Brandon, you beautiful son of a bitch!” I yelled as I watched the first 
bomb roll away over my shoulder. 

I’d wanted to put the weight in the front, but Brandon had insisted that 
was a mistake, that the bombs would flip. Instead, he’d drawn with his 
finger on the table, explaining how to weigh them down. He’d then gone off 
on some Isaac Newton math bullshit. He’d said the babies wouldn’t go as 


far back as they would’ve if I’d been sitting still. He talked about some 
Mythbusters episode where they shot a soccer ball out the back of a moving 
car, and the ball had dropped straight to the ground. I told him I didn’t care 
as long as the bombs were far away from the chopper when they went off. 

After several frustrating, failed attempts to automate the launching 
process, we’d come up with a solution. Once Donut was seated at the 
correct height, she could pull the “babies” out of her inventory, and they’d 
emerge right on the platform. Each bomb was the size of a snowboard, but 
it was shaped and weighted like a champion pinewood derby car. Wheels 
had suddenly become a precious commodity, but we had something almost 
as good: free weights. A lot of free weights of different sizes. When 
tightened and greased properly, they became very effective wheels. 

This first baby—‘“Baby Uno”—was different than the others. It was 
heavier and bigger. It contained three boom jugs, a clay jug filled with 
nothing but goblin oil, and a small jar of gun powder. The last of my 
hobgoblin pus sat in the middle of the bomb, and I held the magical trigger 
into my hand now, waiting for Donut’s signal. 

We had four types of babies: baby uno, boom jar babies, shredder 
babies, and, finally, oh shit babies. 

The oh shit babies consisted of two boom jars with a full-sized 
gunpowder satchel wrapped in dynamite. Those remained in my own 
inventory, too dangerous for Donut to touch. They were a last resort, and I 
prayed we wouldn’t have to use them here. 

I watched the red dot stream down the hallway, approaching the corner. 
Far behind us, the heavy bomb coasted to a stop. 

“Hang on,” I cried, and I jammed on the detonator. There was a 
maddening five-second delay. I turned my attention forward. “Oh fuck.” 

We hit the first intersection, filled with the grub pupae, a dozen of them. 
“What the hell man,” I cried, dodging the giant mounds. I wasn’t expecting 
them to be this damn big. Donut cried out as the trailer bumped ominously. 
Each mound was about the size of a human standing erect. Red and yellow 
lights flashed underneath the wet, pulsating sacs. 

“Drop the bola!” I yelled. 

We had two levers next to Donut’s chair. The red one and the black one. 
We’d originally designed these as bomb launchers before we gave up, 
deciding to just use the more-stable inventory system. But we’d still built 


two chambers on either side of the MOAB. Donut pulled the black lever, 
and the bottom of the chamber slid away. 

Imani’s chain, with heavy weights at either end, dropped away, snaking 
through the chamber. The monster, hopefully, would get its legs tangled in 
the thin, unbreakable link. It probably would only impede it for a second or 
two, but every second counted. 

Behind us, the bomb detonated with a ripping, screaming roar. Dust 
cascaded off the ceiling. It had blown a half-second too late, hitting the 
monster in the back. I didn’t dare look behind me, but I could see on the 
map it had propelled the monster halfway down the hall, even closer to us. 
The red dot of the elemental rolled to a stop. 

“Drop the boom babies,” I cried. This next hall was filled with grubs, 
mostly level threes, which I hadn’t yet fought. These were larger, about 
twice as big as the regular grubs. They had long, pointed tails that they 
whipped ineffectively up at us as we passed. The level threes were too big 
to just run over with the chopper, and I had to dodge them. 

Cow-Tailed Brindle Grub. Level 3. 

The final form before they hit the pupa stage, the Cow-Tailed 
Brindle Grub is finally able to defend itself, kind of like the way a 
toddler holding a plastic baseball bat is able to defend himself. 

“The cars are going to hit the grubs,” Donut cried. “They’re in the 
way!” 

“Do it anyway,” I yelled, increasing speed. Below me, the chopper 
became dangerously hot. 

“Bombs away,” Donut cried. I heard the distinctive clack of the bomb’s 
wheels locking in place. The torch sizzled as Donut activated it, and it 
rolled away down the launcher ramp. 

Sure enough, the wheeled bomb hit a group of grubs and flipped, 
crashing and then detonating. A wave of heat washed over me, but I didn’t 
take any damage. We were going fast enough. Barely. The entire hallway lit 
with blue flames. 

“Yes!” Donut cried. “Burn, baby, burn 

Further behind, the elemental resumed its pursuit. It stopped yet again a 
moment later. It’d been ensnared by the chain. The monster roared in anger, 
shaking the very foundation of the world. 

“Away,” Donut called, dropping another boom baby. Then another. 
Then a third. We continued to carpet bomb the hallway behind us. If the 


1? 


jugs didn’t ignite on their own, Donut hit them with a low-powered magic 
missile once we were far away enough. She only had to do that a couple 
times. Most of the cars hit grubs and flipped. 

“Whoa!” Donut yelled. 

The whole back of the trailer flew up into the air, almost knocking me 
from my seat. But it crashed down a moment later. A just-launched boom 
baby flew into the ceiling and exploded. 

The elemental had cast its spell, but we’d been too far away. Behind us, 
the top of the chamber erupted in flames. My head and back burned, and I 
took a small amount of damage. Donut cried out in pain. She healed herself 
a moment later with her spell. 

“Hold on,” I cried. We were almost there, but I had a sharp left coming 
up. I could see this hallway was filled with more of the pupae. “Like we 
talked about! Drop a shredder, wait a second, then do another boom.” 

We screeched around the corner, the trailer skidding. I had to jerk 
around a set of pupae, rising like stalagmites. We’d only made a few of the 
gunpowder babies, but I’d made them for this part of the stretch. I had no 
idea if this would work, but I figured it couldn’t hurt. 

Donut released the gunpowder and shrapnel-filled bomb. “The 
shredders.” For these, we used a long length of wick. I had to light wicks 
using a lighter, but thanks to Donut’s quadruped status, the system allowed 
her to light them the same way she lit torches, with a mental click. She 
launched the massive shrapnel grenade. The long wick trailed sparks, like 
the tail of a rat. The baby crashed into one of the pupa mounds and fell on 
its side. A moment later, it blew, ripping the pupa to shreds. 

I hazarded a glance over my shoulder, just long enough to see several 
human-sized, hornet-like creatures vomit out of the sacs. The uncooked 
monsters hit the ground and started convulsing. 

I was hoping if I injured the chrysalis sacs, the monsters would come 
out, and the elemental would waste a valuable second or two ripping them 
to shreds. 

We filled the last stretch of hallway with moonshine and fire. The 
elemental seemed to be moving more cautiously, but it continued to follow. 
Ahead, the stairwell materialized. 

A warning appeared, blinking ominously just below the handlebars. 

Goblin Copper Chopper — Boiler Breach Imminent. 


“Goddamnit,” I growled. I’d pushed it too hard. We had 15 seconds. I 
tried to remember which of the valves to turn to release the pressure. I 
couldn’t. 

“Fuck it,” I said, increasing the speed. 

“T thought we were going to the other safe room!” Donut cried. “We’re 
not going down the stairs, are we?” 

We entered the large, round room. The stairwell loomed before us, a 
hole in the ground with a bright light shining directly up into the air. All 
around us, pupae pulsed, most of them ringing the walls. There were dozens 
of them now. All had timers over their heads, some of them only at a few 
hours. 

The actual stairs faced the wrong direction, but that was okay. There 
was no railing or barrier. This was nothing but a hole in the ground, as wide 
as one of the tunnels, just like it had been on the surface. 

“Oil slick! Then jump,” I cried. 

“Jump? Are you crazy!” 

“Goddamnit, Donut. Do it!” 

She pulled the red lever, and the bottom of the second chamber fell 
away. Champagne-colored oil sprayed onto the floor. 

“Jump,” I cried. Donut and I both leaped from the fast-moving vehicle. 
It continued its forward trajectory, spilling oil onto the rocky ground, 
plummeting into the deep stairway hole. The chopper disappeared from 
view. It crunched, followed by a relatively small explosion. Black smoke 
billowed into the air. 

“What did you do that for?” Donut yelled as we both scrambled to our 
feet. 

“Get your Puddle Jumper spell ready,” I said. I pointed behind us, at the 
far end of the distant hallway, the opposite direction we’d come. Mordecai’s 
guild room was just around the corner from there. “Send us there. Cast it 
when I tell you.” 

“Okay,” she said, her voice filled with uncertainty. “Don’t forget, it’s ten 
seconds!” 

The elemental had, indeed, stopped to eviscerate the hornet creatures in 
the hall, giving me just enough time to think about how much of a crazy 
asshole I was. The stairs are right there. We can just go down and be safe. If 
this doesn’t work, you are dead. 

I stood right at the edge of the hole. 


“Cast now!” I cried. 

Why not, I thought, and I pulled one of the oh shit babies from my 
inventory and gently placed it down on the ground in front of us. It sat there 
like a giant skateboard. Two boom jars, gunpowder, and a ring of dynamite. 

Nine seconds. 

“Its coming!” Donut screamed, her voice more terrified than I ever 
heard. She leaped to my shoulder. 

Eight seconds. 

In front of us, the rage elemental emerged from the billowing smoke of 
the hall. It was a beast from hell, huge. Terrifying. A length of chain was 
still attached to its back leg. To my surprise, the monster’s health was in the 
red. Barely in the red, but it had been more hurt than I expected. It saw us, 
and it paused. 

Five seconds. 

It bellowed, long and hard. 

I looked up, for the first time, and I realized the ceiling of this chamber, 
like the borough boss room on the floor above, was very, very high. If it 
cast Reverse Gravity now... 

Three seconds. 

It charged. 

Two seconds. 

“Stay with me,” I said. 

It passed the threshold of the room, and the moment its six legs hit the 
floor, it started to slide on the oil slick. It barely seemed to notice. It roared 
as it rocketed toward us, forward fingers ready to slash. I remembered what 
it did to Yolanda, unraveling her. 

We disappeared, reappearing about 500 feet away, down the hall. A 
horrific, indignant shriek filled the dungeon, followed by the distinctive 
whoosh of a big-ass explosion. I hit the ground and covered Donut, but it 
was Okay. The bomb was deep in the hole when it went off, and we were far 
away. 

A moment passed. I watched the minimap, looking for signs that the 
monster had survived. 

The dot was gone. Absolute silence followed. My stomach heaved, an 
aftereffect of the sudden teleportation. 

Relief washed over me. I sat down right there on the floor. My heart, 
which had been oddly calm throughout, was now a jackhammer. My arms 


felt numb, tingling with the overdose of adrenaline. My entire body 
trembled. 

A moment later, Donut cried in outrage. “We didn’t get any experience! 
Carl, you broke the game!” 

“We didn’t get any experience because we’re not the ones who killed 
it.” 

“What?” Donut said. “I don’t understand.” 

I remembered what Rory, the goblin shamanka had told us. It’d only 
been a few days ago, but it felt like a lifetime. If we climb down the stairs, 
we die. You get halfway down, and your body just dissolves. I’ve seen it 
myself. 

Mordecai had said something similar once, too. Mobs who dared to 
attempt to descend didn’t teleport away. They died. We’d tricked the 
monster into the hole. Once it was in there, the dungeon followed its own 
rules, and it dissolved the elemental. 

Unfortunately, the system didn’t look too kindly on what we’d done. We 
hadn’t been awarded experience for the kill. Pd received a couple 
achievements, but not many. 

But that was okay. We were still alive. I took in the mass of red grub 
dots and Xs littering the map. I felt as if Pd been awake for two days 
straight. I groaned, pulling myself to my feet. We still had a lot of work to 
do. 

Carl: Brandon. Get your people to the stairs. Do it now. The way is 
safe, but it won’t be for long. 


OceanofPDE:.com 


Time to Level Collapse: 4 Days, 6 hours 


Views: 1.4 Trillion 
Followers: 352.2 Billion 
Favorites: 21.4 Billion 


I STILL HAD PLENTY OF MOONSHINE LEFT, AND DONUT AND I SPENT THE 
hour torching all the pupae in the large room. I looked up at the map. There 
was no way we could get to them all. We were going to have to hightail it 
out of here. 

With the unfortunate destruction of the chopper, our travel options were 
now limited. I had enough crap in my massive inventory to probably build 
another one, but I didn’t know what I was doing with the boiler part of the 
mechanism. Hopefully we could find another set of goblins to help us. Or 
better yet, find something more reliable. 

About forty minutes after we killed the elemental, the tattered remains 
of Meadow Lark entered the chamber. Brandon, Chris, and Imani had built 
a second, less elegant transportation system. There were 36 residents left, 
and they were piled into three separate shopping-cart-like contraptions, 
built with chopper wheels and hunks of wood. Chris and Imani pushed the 
two larger “people buckets” as Brandon called them. This time, both of 


them strained with the effort. Brandon, whose strength was nowhere near 
the other’s, also awkwardly pushed a group of six people into the room. 

“We didn’t need your directions,” Brandon said. “There’s a long trail of 
scorched hallway that leads directly to this hole.” He paused. “There are a 
lot of those chrysalis things out there. You sure you don’t just want to come 
with us?” 

“Pm sure,” I said. I looked into the smoking hole. “Do me a favor, 
though, and pick up anything you find down there. There probably isn’t 
much left.” 

He nodded. I reached out to shake his hand, and he pulled me into a 
hug. “You two take care of yourselves, okay?” 

I grinned. “You do the same.” 

I said my goodbyes to Chris and Imani. I found Donut on the lap of 
Mrs. McGibbons, purring away. 

“Barry?” she asked as I walked up. “Barry, where are we?” 

“We’re in the dungeon, Mrs. McGibbons. It’s me, Carl. You’re going 
down to the next floor.” 

She looked at me, her eyes registering confusion. Once again, I felt a 
wave of doubt wash over me. Was this the right thing? What else could we 
do? 

“The dungeon?” she asked. “Like a sex thing?” 

“I don’t know if I’m ever going to see you again,” I said, kneeling 
down. She sat in the people bucket, looking about, eyes wide. “I wanted to 
say goodbye.” 

She reached up and touched my cheek. At that moment, she looked 
every day of her 99 years. Her hands were worryingly cold. “We should 
have had children, Barry. I wish I hadn’t talked you into working so hard.” 

I grasped her hand. “It’s okay. It’s going to be okay.” I remembered my 
mom saying the same thing to me the day she had left. It had been a lie 
then, and it was a lie now. 

“I think I’ve had too much to drink,” she said. “Or I’m having another 
one of those acid flashbacks. This cat keeps talking to me.” 

I smiled. “Goodbye, Mrs. McGibbons.” 


Imani was the last to go down the ramp. It’d gone quickly. She waved, 
unsmiling at us. I waved back, and we turned away. 

“Do you think we’ ll ever see them again?” Donut asked. 

“T don’t know,” I said. 

We angled toward the quadrant with the kobolds, killing all the grubs 
and burning all the pupae we passed. Earlier, I had noted a safe room deep 
in the kobold quadrant, along the back side of the area. We would grind our 
way toward it and try to get a nap before we had to do this next interview. 

Hopefully the hornet monsters, when they hatched, would remain in 
their area. 


Kobold Rider — Level 5 

Here’s an interesting fact. The DNA of a kobold and the DNA of a 
chihuahua are almost identical. That should tell you almost everything 
you need to know about these yappy little assholes. 

Small, angry, think they are bigger than they really are, there is 
nothing more terrifying than a pack of these little bastards charging at 
you across the battlefield, at least in their own minds. But don’t 
underestimate them, either. They are fearless, they are intelligent, and 
they bite first, ask questions later. 

Their mounts, the Danger Dingoes, should probably worry you. 

The last time I’d played Dungeons and Dragons had been aboard the 
USCGC Stratton. I remembered kobolds as little, lizard-like monsters. In 
the game I’d played, the dungeon master had them as minions of a small 
dragon. Here, they were different. They, indeed, looked like goddamned 
armored chihuahuas. They were about the same size as the barking little 
dogs, but they stood upright and wore chainmail armor that seemed to be 
made out of beer can tabs. Each wore tiny metal caps with a spike on them. 

Most of them were armed with long, angry-looking spears with feathers 
hanging off the end. They wielded them like lances. 

“Dogs riding dogs,” Donut spat as the pair of Danger-Dingo-riding 
kobolds charged at us. “I’ve had nightmares like this.” She hissed and fired 
a pair of magic missiles, hitting the mounts. The level-five dingoes 
stumbled, rolling forward. I formed a fist as the two kobold riders went 


flying. The first one crunched onto the ground, breaking his neck. The 
second bounced up, yapping, teeth frothing. It charged at me. I punched it, 
and it splattered against the wall. The things were more solid than they 
looked. 

I fell back as one of the dingoes lunged at me. This one had a Septic 
debuff blinking over its head. This monster’s snarl and bark was deeper, 
more terrifying than that of its rider. Their white face paint made them 
appear even more frightening. Donut leaped onto the back of the dingo, 
ripping with her rear claws as she hopped high into the air and fired a third 
magic missile at the still-recovering second mount, killing it. The dingo on 
top of me shuddered, then fell over, dead. Stinking blood and gore washed 
over me as I pushed it off. 

Donut landed deftly next to me and started licking her paw. 

“That was pretty slick,” I said, brushing myself off. My entire front was 
soaked in gore. “You’re getting a lot better at that.” 

“I think I have a bonus to damage against canine creatures,” she said. 
“That reminds me, I saw something weird earlier, and I forgot to tell you 
about it. It was a new tab that said ‘Racial benefits,’ but it was only there for 
a second. It blinked and disappeared.” 

“That is weird,” I said. Instinctively, I pulled up my own menu, and I 
didn’t have anything like that. 

The safe room was just around the comer. After we obliterated the 
kobold and dingo corpses, we headed toward it. This was another one of the 
non-manned rooms. The room appeared to have once been some sort of 
industrial kitchen, but with all the appliances removed except a large, walk- 
in freezer that still was in working order. We inspected the giant 
refrigerator, but it was empty. 

A stainless steel counter stood underneath the set of screens, and on the 
counter was a plain, metallic toaster, surrounded by a pile of crumbs. It 
didn't seem to be plugged into anything, but I couldn't lift it up, either. Up 
on the screen it read, Free Mana Toast! One per Crawler! 

I pressed down the little handle, and a moment later it popped up. A 
burned triangle of toast jumped out, landing on the counter. I picked it up 
and smelled it. I examined its properties. 

Mana Toast. 

This is toast. 

It refills your mana. That’s it. Nothing more. Fuck you. 


“Well, that was unnecessary,” I muttered. I gave my piece to Donut, 
who tucked them both away into her inventory. 

The room also contained a drinking fountain, a couple chairs and cots, 
and a set of bathrooms. As had become our custom, we checked both of the 
bathrooms out. They were empty, but someone had clearly been here before 
us. The toilet paper had all been taken, and the shampoo dispenser in the 
woman’s shower had been emptied. The floor was wet, like someone had 
recently taken a shower. 

Mukta (Admin): Crawlers Carl and Princess Donut. You are to be 
transported to your interview in ten minutes. Prepare yourselves. 

Mukta? 

Donut: WHO ARE YOU? WHERE IS ZEV? 

Mukta (Admin): Your Outreach Associate has been put in a time 
out. She will return to you tomorrow. I am her substitute until then. 

I glanced up at the clock. We had eight hours until the next episode. 
That wasn’t right. 

Carl: We weren’t supposed to go for another couple hours. 

Mukta (Admin): Administrator Zev had you scheduled on a 
program called Dungeon Crawl Tactics. I have overridden her decision 
and picked a better program for you. This one is paying a higher fee. 
Do not worry, it is similar to the other one. It is still round-table style. 
Close enough at least. They still offer gifts to the participants. 

Carl: We were promised the right to refuse interviews. I don’t want 
to go on this one. 

Mukta (Admin): You seem to be under the impression that you have 
a Say in this, crawler. 

Donut: WHAT DID ZEV DO? WHY IS SHE IN A TIME OUT? 

The message clicked away, and the chat disappeared from our log. 
There was no way to respond or initiate a new message. 

“Carl, I’m not ready!” A brush appeared in front of her. “Brush me, 
quick!” 

The front of my jacket was still covered in dingo gore. I moved to the 
bathroom to clean myself off the best I could. “Pl get to you in a minute.” 

“I don’t like this,” I said a few minutes later as I brushed a knot out of 
Donut’s fur. This was my first time doing this since we’d come to the 
dungeon. I had a quick memory, of Bea teaching me how to properly brush 
the cat. The first time I’d ever done it, Donut had yowled and tried to 


disembowel me. Bea and I had fallen over ourselves laughing at the 
indignant look on the cat’s face. It had taken months before she’d sit still 
and let me do it. 

We only had a couple minutes, and I spent it looking at the handful of 
achievements I’d received from our rage elemental gambit. Donut actually 
had several more than I did, all of them bomb-themed ones I’d already 
received. She didn’t waste time opening the associated boxes just yet, 
instead opting to use her precious few minutes cleaning herself. 

Most of my own bomb-themed skills moved up to level nine. I now had 
a handful of mechanic and construction-themed skills as well. I received 
two achievements of note: 


New achievement! Grease Monkey! 

Don’t get ahead of yourself, Dale. You built and deployed a wheeled 
device. When the primitive humans in Mesopotamia made the first 
wheel, they probably thought they were hot shit, too. It still took them 
another 5,000 years after that to invent the toilet. 

Reward: You’ve received a Silver Mechanic’s Box! 


New achievement! You call that a trap? 

A mob has been injured because of something you purposely left 
lying around the dungeon. From scattered Legos to spiked pits to 
buckets of flesh-devouring Skinner Ants to dimensional rifts that 
instantly boil all the blood in one’s body, the art of trapmaking has a 
celebrated and storied history in the annals of Dungeon Crawler World. 

So if you’re going to do it, you better do it right. Whatever it was 
that gave you this achievement, it was probably something stupid. This 
will help you make the next trap more... exciting. 

Remember: If you don’t make it titillating, we will. 

Reward: You’ve received a Gold Sapper’s Box! 


I was a bit confused about what, specifically, gave me the trap achievement. 
I knew Donut had received this one, too. I guessed it was from either 


dropping the chain or the oil slick. Probably not the bombs, which were 
placed in another category. 

The mechanic’s box gave me a tool called a Gorgon Marital Aid. It was 
shaped like a spatula. “What the hell is this?” I muttered, pulling up its 
properties. 

Gorgon Marital Aid 

A favorite amongst intergalactic porn stars, this is a hardening and 
de-hardening tool. May only be used at a workbench. Assists in fusing 
joints or creating varying degrees of plasticity in otherwise rigid 
materials without affecting material strength. 

That seemed like a pretty useful tool. I put it in my inventory next to my 
goo-inator 3000. 

The sapper’s box contained two items. A Sapper’s table that practically 
knocked me over when it appeared. It was a table just like my engineering 
and alchemy table. The description noted that explosive items or traps 
created at the table didn’t lose stability or couldn’t be prematurely set off. 

The second item in the box was a trap-building item. There were ten of 
them, and each one was nothing more than a tiny black box the size of a 
dime with a long length of wire attached. 

Proximity Trigger 

Trigger Warning! Traumatizing content! Using a Sapper’s Table, 
the highly-valuable Proximity Trigger may be attached to any non- 
static trap. Allows for the establishment of activation conditions, 
including countdowns, mob-type triggers, etc. 

Sure enough, the moment I put the item in my inventory, it placed itself 
near the top of the list in terms of value, right behind that ridiculous Fireball 
or Custard lottery ticket. And I now had ten of them. 

After all of that, my level was still stuck at 11. It was near the edge of 
12, but it had barely budged since the fight with Krakaren. The plan was, 
for now, to kill off the kobolds and then move out of the area. I was hoping 
to be at least level 13 by the time we hit the stairs. 

Mukta (Admin): Transferring now. 

Before I even had the chance to finish my thought, we disappeared and 
reappeared. 

Donut, who had been sitting on a chair, reappeared two feet in the air. 
She yowled in surprise and fell. Her metallic crupper clinked onto the boat’s 
deck. The ground roiled. As always, my HUD snapped off. 


We were on another boat, one much smaller than the last one. There 
were no windows and no doors. There were no features at all other than a 
pair of chairs that sat cramped together at one end of the room. The place 
was about the size of a large walk-in closet. I could reach up and touch the 
ceiling, which seemed to be made of plastic. The room smelled of salt water 
and was about twenty degrees cooler than the dungeon. 

A floating frisbee thing descended from the low ceiling. The jet-black, 
metallic disk hummed. A single blue light flashed on the edge. It spoke in a 
soothing female, robotic voice. 

“My name is Mexx-55. You are in a rental trailer owned and operated 
by Senegal Production Systems, Unlimited. This trailer is used by multiple 
tunnel productions related to the crawl. For this session, use of these 
facilities has been leased by the program Death Watch Extreme Dungeon 
Mayhem. Sit in the provided chairs and keep your limbs to your side while 
the table generates. The holo will commence in 60 seconds.” 

“No green room?” Donut said, looking around, outraged. “No snacks?” 

“Please sit down,” Mexx-55 repeated. 

“What’s the host’s name?” Donut asked. 

“The Maestro,” Mexx-55 said. Her previously-emotionless voice hinted 
an air of distaste. 

“Death Watch Extreme Dungeon Mayhem?” I muttered, moving to the 
chair. The moment we sat, Donut’s seat raised up. A table formed out of the 
wall, grinding in place in front of us. It was only about two feet wide. 
“That’s the stupidest name I’ve ever heard.” 

“Yeah, wait until you see the show,” Mexx-55 said before rising up into 
the ceiling. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 42 ] 


“I’M GOING TO VOMIT,” DONUT SAID AS THE FLOOR HEAVED. “I’M GOING TO 
puke on television, Carl.” 

“You'll get used to it,” I said. “I think when the holo starts, it stabilizes. 
Just breathe.” 

“I don’t like puking. I don’t want to puke!” 

I laughed. “Really? I seem to recall you had a thing for vomiting on my 
pillow.” 

“That was different. I did that on purpose.” 

“T knew it! I fucking knew it.” 

Donut made a gagging noise. “The last place didn’t bounce around this 
much.” 

“The seas were calmer, and it was a bigger boat,” I said. “Breathe.” 

The dark, heaving room flickered, and the lights turned on, revealing an 
audience. They had no reaction to our sudden appearance, and I suspected 
we weren’t yet visible to them. The sensation of movement was suddenly 
much more muted. It was still there, but the holo had some sort of 
compensation effect. 

I looked about the suddenly-bigger room. A table floated before us, 
much larger than the actual table in the trailer. This table curved, shaped 
like a smile. We sat in the second and third seat. To our left was a larger, 
more ornate chair. It was made of a dark wood with what appeared to be red 
velvet cushions. The arm rests were made of pig skulls. Four more plain, 
empty chairs appeared to our right, curving along the table. 

I looked over my shoulder, and the backdrop was an elephant-like 
monster with three spike-covered trunks. The animation swung its head 


back and forth in a loop with the word “Extreme” exploding over and over 
in the midst of the image. 

The crowd suddenly started screaming and cheering. I snapped my 
attention forward, but I couldn’t see what they were hollering at. Their 
attention was to my left. I realized the show had started, and the host had 
appeared, but for whatever reason, we couldn’t see him or her yet. This was 
a different setup to Odette’s show. I suspected we’d just magically appear 
when it was our turn. 

This went on for several minutes. The crowd started chanting 
something. It took me a moment to understand what they were saying. “Die, 
die, die,” they seemed to be repeating. They were watching a video, I 
realized, their attention focused on the main screen, which for me, still 
showed the elephant graphic. They burst into screams of pleasure as 
whatever it was they were watching, died. “Glurp, glurp!” they screamed. 
“Glurp, glurp!” 

I spent a few moments examining the crowd, who continued to laugh 
and cheer. The audience’s makeup was fairly similar to Odette’s crowd, 
with a glaring difference that made my stomach sink. 

“Oh fuck,” I grumbled when I finally saw it. 

I focused on a group of humans sitting in the second row, hooting and 
screaming and laughing boisterously. There was a cruel air to their laughter. 
It was almost a tangible thing, like a black, malevolent cloud that embraced 
the presence of the entire audience. I was reminded of that day when my 
dad and his friends broke my slingshot. They’d been firing rocks at 
squirrels, laughing in a similar way. 

These humans in the second row were all male, and they were all about 
twelve or thirteen years old. It seemed the entire audience consisted of 
young, pre-and early teen males. One of them was wearing a red shirt that 
said “GLURP!” on it. 

“Glurp, glurp!” the audience yelled. “Glurp, glurp!” 

“Donut,” I said, talking quickly. “This crowd is going to be a lot 
different than the last one. They’re all kids. I don’t think they’re the happy, 
cartoon-watching kind, either.” 

“Carl, we’ve gone over this,” Donut said. “You sit there and look angry, 
and I do the talking. Remember?” 

To our left, the host suddenly appeared. There was no warning. He 
showed up in mid-sentence. A floating note appeared in front of me. ON 


AIR SOON. BE READY. 

“... know you little cunts are gonna love today’s surprise panelists! 
Your Maestro had to bang some slimy mudskipper tail to pull this one off. 
But nothing is too good for Maestro’s piglets! Suck it! Suck it good, 
piglets!” 

“Glurp, glurp!” the audience screamed. “Glurp, glurp 

The host—the Maestro—was an orc. A huge, muscular orc. 

He looked a lot like a tuskling, but it was clear this was a different type 
of the same species. The tusklings were dwarf versions of these guys. 
Tuskling skin was bright pink, pig-like. The Maestro’s flesh was darker, 
covered in black, bristly hair. He reminded me of a wild boar. His left tusk 
was completely gold. He stood about six and a half feet tall, built like a 
tank. A line of earrings circled his left ear. He wore a hot pink, silken shirt, 
buttoned halfway up, revealing a hairy, well-muscled chest covered in gold 
chains. I couldn’t tell for certain, but I had the distinct impression he was 
only in his early twenties. 

I hated him instantly. 

To my right now sat two humans, two men about my age. Both of them 
were Asian. Their ragged, bewildered look pegged them as fellow crawlers. 
One of them noticed us and pointed, talking quickly to his companion. I 
couldn’t hear what they were saying, but it seemed like they recognized us. 
I waved, and they waved back, both of them bowing rapidly. 

They turned and also waved at the empty chairs to their right. There was 
someone there, but we couldn’t see who it was. 

“So we have six guests today. Two stupid, lame guests. Two VIP 
surprise guests, and then two more surprise guests for our VIPs. Our VIPs 
today are so hot, we are—for the very first time—coming to you live! That 
is how hard I am working for you. We’ll start with the lame guests. Watch 
this shit, piglets.” 

A screen appeared in front of us. It showed a party of four crawlers 
running from a group of ten troglodyte bashers. The lizard monsters were 
armed with spiked clubs. The crawler group consisted of the two guys 
sitting next to us, a woman, and a third male. Only the male who wasn’t 
here appeared to be armed. He held a long, odd sword with teeth on it like a 
saw. None of them wore any sort of armor. They turned the corner and 
stopped dead. 


1? 1” 


I felt sick to my stomach, seeing what they faced. Just around the bend 
was a familiar sight. Five grub pupae sat, blocking their retreat. The middle 
sac was in the midst of ripping open. A massive hornet burst forth and 
buzzed into the air. The only resemblance it bore to the brindle grub was the 
top half of its bug face. The monster consisted of a huge, hornet-like body 
with a pair of arms with grasping, clawed fingers. It looked at the four 
crawlers and spat. A glob of white goo shot out and hit the male with the 
sword. It splattered directly on the man’s face. He screamed, falling to the 
ground, dropping the sword. The glob was like acid. It sizzled and crackled. 
His pain-filled screeches continued as the troglodytes stopped at the corner, 
boxing them all in. The other pupae started to pulsate and tear as four more 
hornets appeared. The woman reached down to pick up the sword. The 
world on the screen froze. 

At first I thought they’d simply paused the scene, but then the two men 
disappeared. When they vanished, there was a puff of air, and the sword 
blew a foot away, clattering loudly. Everything else, including the mobs 
remained frozen. 

The crowd burst into a mix of applause and jeers. The two men next us 
were now visible to the audience. 

“You know what time it is, piglets?” the Maestro shouted. 

“Death watch! Death watch!” the crowd screamed. 

“Okay, so we got two crawlers here. Their full names are quite the snout 
full, and does it really matter?” Laughter followed. “The fellow with the 
acne scars is Li Jun and the bald fucker we’ll just call Zhang. Say hello, 
meat.” 

It took the two men a moment to realize the Maestro was talking to 
them. 

“Hello,” Li Jun said. “I don’t understand what is happening.” 

“Okay, so let me catch you up since you’re too stupid to figure it out. 
You’re on Death Watch, a segment of my show. That means we just plucked 
you away from certain death. You’re welcome. Before, your plight was 
hopeless. Now you have a chance to survive. But we’ll get to that in a 
second.” 

The Maestro waved up at the screen. “You all have been hit with a Time 
Freeze spell, and it will run out just as this episode ends. We have a little 
game we’d like you to play, to give you the opportunity to live past the next 
few seconds. Yeah?” 


“Okay,” Li Jun said, exchanging a look with his companion. “What do 
we need to do?” 

“Death watch! Death watch!” the crowd chanted. 

“We’re going to show you a series of scenes, and you have to guess if 
the crawler survives or not. But before we begin, I want to know a little 
about you guys.” The Maestro waved his hand, the stats of the two men 
appeared floating over both them. Both were level seven. They each had a 
single bronze star over their heads. Both had a strength of eight, meaning 
they’d received some sort of enhancement. Also of note was Zhang’s 
constitution, which was at 15, making it one point higher than my own. 

“Li Jun,” the Maestro said. “Did you know your three companions 
before the game started?” 

The poor man seemed terrified and bewildered. “Yes. Yes, sir. We all 
work together in a warehouse. All except my sister, Li Na.” 

“So that doll up on the screen there, the one reaching for the sword. 
She’s your sister?” 

“Yes, sir.” 

The orc nodded thoughtfully. “Would you do anything to save her?” 

“Death watch! Death watch!” the crowd screamed. 

“What do you mean?” the man asked. 

The Maestro ignored him. He turned to Zhang. “And you, Zhang. What 
do you think about Li Na?” 

“What do I think about her? She’s my best friend’s sister. She’s like my 
own sister.” 

“And what about your fourth companion? The guy who just got his face 
spooged on by that Brindled Vespa? He’s your friend too?” 

“Yes,” Zhang said after a moment. The bald man’s eyes were fixed on 
the frozen scene. “He’s our manager.” 

“The big boss man, huh?” the Maestro said. “So, if you were forced to 
choose between saving him and saving Li Na, you’d pick the girl, right?” 

Zhang just looked at the orc, refusing to answer. 

“That’s okay buddy, you might not have to choose. We’re going to play 
a game. This is how it works. We’re going to show you four scenes, and we 
want you to guess if the crawler is going to live or die through the 
encounter. If you guess correctly, you will receive a teleport point. When 
we’re done, for every point you have, you can spend it to save yourselves or 
one of your companions. The recipient of each teleport point will be 


immediately transferred to the closest safe room. If you decide to throw a 
point at ol’ spooge-face, he will be healed, so don’t worry about that. 
Ready? Good, let’s go.” 

The scene showed a woman running from a giant beaver thing holding a 
battle axe. 

“Fuck this,” I said, and I stood from my chair. 

“Carl, where are you going?” Donut asked. 

“Come on, Donut. This is beyond the pale. Fuck this guy.” The table 
was blocking my exit. I climbed up on it, feeling forward for where the real 
table ended. I reached it, and hopped down, my legs piercing through the 
illusion. 

A moment later the lights of the chamber snapped back on, and the holo 
dispersed. Mexx-55 emerged, floating down from her spot on the ceiling. 
But when she spoke, the voice was different. This was a gruff, male voice. 
Also an orc if I had to guess. 

“Get back in your seat, Crawler,” the voice said. “You’re scheduled to 
be on screen after this segment. This show is being tunneled live. We do not 
have time for tantrums.” 

“Go fuck yourself,” I said. 

“Carl, you’re going to get us in trouble,” Donut said. 

“You are ordered to sit,” the voice said. “We have paid the appearance 
fee, and you will participate in the program. If you refuse, we are 
authorized to drop you into this ocean, drowning you both.” 

“Bullshit,” I said. “You’re not Borant, and you’re not the Syndicate. 
There’s no way they’d authorize that. We are not participating in this 
cruelty.” 

Nothing happened for several moments. Donut jumped up to my 
shoulder. “You’re gonna get us in trouble,” she said again, this time more 
quietly. 

“Crawler Carl, this is Administrator Mukta,” a new voice said. “You are 
required to take your seat, or there will be consequences.” 

“PII go on as many shows as you want, but we’re not doing this one,” I 
said. 

“Carl, we will discuss this when you are done. If you do not participate, 
we will accelerate you. There are plenty of other crawlers to show on our 
program. This is not a bluff.” 


Deep breath, I thought. You will not break me. You will not fucking 
break me. 

“Can that other guy hear me right now?” I asked. 

A pause. “No, he cannot,” Mukta said. 

“As long as I don’t talk shit about you guys, will there be consequences 
for what I say? As long as I participate, I mean?” 

Another pause, and this one was longer than before. “They have paid 
for your appearance. Nothing else.” 

“All right,” I said, “Tell him we want on the show. Now. Before this 
Death Watch segment ends.” Without waiting for an answer, I returned to 
my seat. The table once again pushed itself out, and the holo resumed. 

“Carl, what are you doing?” Donut asked as she settled back in place. 

“T’m the one who talks this time,” I said. 

The studio reformed. The crowd was screaming and laughing. On the 
screen, a dead man convulsed on the ground as a group of baby-faced 
winged fairies splashed about in his corpse like it was a kiddie pool. 

“Sorry, it looks like you got that one wrong, too. You have two teleport 
points,” the Maestro said. “I need a decision.” 

Neither of the men said anything. 

The Maestro leaned forward in his ornate chair. He smiled wickedly. “I 
need a decision, or nobody gets saved.” 

“Then nobody gets saved,” Li Jun said. He looked at Zhang. “We die 
together.” 

“Aw, isn’t that fucking sweet?” the Maestro said. “Very well, if that’s 
what you want. Piglets, should we give them what they want?” 

“Death Watch! Death Watch!” 

“No, wait,” Zhang said. “Save Li Jun and Li Na.” 

“No,” Li Jun said. He reached out and put his hand on his friend’s 
shoulder. “We stand together.” 

A sour look passed across the Maestro’s face. He said something, but it 
was muted. He paused, then nodded. A moment passed, and the cruel smile 
reappeared on his face. 

“We’re going to do something a little different, piglets. Our VIP guests 
have been watching backstage, and it seems like they have something to 
Say.” 

The crowd screamed its approval. 

ON AIR IN TEN SECONDS. 


The Maestro was playing this off like this was his idea. “Okay, piglets, 
my next two guests do not need any introduction. The last you probably saw 
of these two, they were stuck in a room with a bunch of old fucks. Are they 
going to escape? Spoiler alert, they just got out. We were going to show 
what these crazy assholes did to get free, but since they want to suck on it 
so bad, we’re going to bring them on early.” 

“Glurp, glurp! Glurp, glurp!” 

YOU ARE NOW ON AIR. 

The studio became brighter, and the crowd went berserk. Donut made a 
show of licking her paw, looking aloof. 

“Crawler Carl and Princess Donut,” the Maestro said. He drew out the 
word “Princess,” and it dripped with sarcasm. “Piglets, you probably don’t 
know this. These two just broke a record for the most-watched second floor 
battle in the history of Dungeon Crawler World. If it were me, I would’ve 
killed every last one of those geriatric sandbags and reaped the experience, 
but you know how it is with humans.” He looked down at Donut. “And 
cats, apparently. All that effort, and what did they get? No experience, no 
real loot.” He shrugged. “But you can’t argue with results. Carl and Donut, 
say hello to my piglets.” 

“We want in on the game,” I said, not bothering to greet the crowd. “We 
want to play Death Watch, too.” 

The Maestro laughed, an uncertain timbre to it. “Thats not how it 
works, Carl. I knew you were a crazy mother...” 

“They have two points. Let’s use them to transfer me and Donut to that 
spot.” I looked at the crowd. “Wouldn’t that be cool?” 

The crowd roared. “Death watch! Death watch!” 

It took a moment for the large orc to recover. “People talk about how 
stupid you are, Carl. But I never realized you were this stupid. If you’re 
feeling suicidal, then...” 

I leaned in, pointing my finger. “No, you listen to me, pork boy. If 
you’re going to fuck with people like this, then at least make it fair. They 
played your game, and they won two points. You said they can use those 
two points to transfer people away. I don’t see why it can’t be used to 
transfer people in, either.” 

The crowd seemed to love this idea. 

“Tt doesn’t work that way,” the Maestro repeated. “You’re not part of the 
game. It’s against the rules.” 


“Yeah, fuck the rules.” I looked at the crowd. “I think we should tell the 
rules to suck it. What do you think?” 

“Glurp, glurp! Glurp, glurp!” 

The Maestro did not like his audience glurping for someone else. I 
recognized that look on his face, of fulminating, under-the-surface rage. I 
felt a deep satisfaction at that. I didn’t know if this was a good idea or an 
incredibly dumb one, but I felt the urge to keep poking at him. 

The truth was, I didn’t really want to be transferred to this battle, likely 
halfway across the world. I felt for these guys, and I wanted to help them. 
But if helping Brandon and crew taught me anything, it was that I needed to 
balance it out. There was a difference between giving aid and sacrificing 
yourself for people you didn’t even know. Still, this felt like the right thing. 
I knew my argument was nonsensical. I also knew how this sort of crowd 
thought. This Maestro guy was the worst kind of a bully. A bully with an 
audience. I had to do something. For the moment I didn’t have a plan other 
than pissing him off as much as I could. 

I looked over at the two empty chairs to the right of Zhang and Li Jun. 
A thought struck me. What had he said? Two more surprise guests for our 
VIPs. So it was somebody we knew. I had a sudden, strong suspicion who it 
was. If I was right, then I knew I could push the Maestro even further. He 
had a plan. A cruel plan, and going down this path was doing nothing but 
detracting from the narrative he was attempting to build. That meant the 
more I pushed, the more it would piss him off, and the more desperate he’d 
get to get to steer the conversation back on track. 

On television shows and in kids’ books, they always repeated the 
“Bullies will back down when stood up to” mantra. That was utter 
horseshit. It always has been. That only worked when the one standing up 
to the bully was stronger than them. The Maestro and I were not on equal 
footing. But my short confrontation in the production trailer taught me 
something important. I didn’t need to be stronger than him. Donut and I 
were something better. We were expensive. 

I had a hunch that they’d spent a lot of money to get me and Donut on 
this show, maybe even overextended themselves. We were popular, and 
Donut had proven herself a reliable guest. The fact they were using a shitty 
rental trailer and didn’t have their own suggested this production ran on the 
same sort of shoestring budget most YouTube shows had. 


The Maestro, seething, said, “You dumb shit. These guys were dead! I 
saved them. I’m giving them a second chance. Maybe I will transfer you 
into that fight. How would you like that? And we’ll transfer the other four 
out, so you have no backup at all. Your ridiculous luck wouldn’t save you 
then. I don’t think you’ve fought a Brindled Vespa yet. In a second, there’ Il 
be five of them in that hallway. You’ ll be utterly fucked.” 

I smiled. “You’re too much of a pussy to do it. I dare you.” 

“Death watch! Death watch!” 

The Maestro looked so angry I thought he might actually cry. I 
suspected—and hoped—he couldn t do it. If I knew one thing about Borant, 
it was that they nickel and dimed everything. This Death Watch segment 
probably cost a lot of money, and that was with regular, low-view crawlers. 
There was no way they’d be able to send one of the game’s highest-value 
streams into danger like that. 

When people became red-zone angry, they were, in general, 
unpredictable. That wasn’t true with bullies. I knew this from experience. It 
was the opposite with bullies. I knew exactly what was about to happen. 

I turned to Li Jun and Zhang who sat next to me, mouths agape. I 
quickly whispered, “Grab your sister and the other guy and run toward the 
troglodytes and through them. Leave the sword. The lizards are really dumb 
and slow, and their attention is on the hornets. You’ll only have a few 
seconds.” 

“But,” Li Jun said. “You wanted to trade places...” 

The Maestro growled, “You don’t tell me what to do on my own show, 
meat.” He slammed down on a button on his table, and the two men to my 
right vanished. 

The words “Death Watch Extreme!” appeared on the giant display. The 
two men appeared back in the scene in the hallway, caught between the 
hornets and the troglodytes. For a moment, everything remained frozen 
except the two men. 

Zhang reacted first, shouting, “grab your sister!” as he reached down to 
pick up the fallen third man. 

Just as he moved to pick him up, the scene unfroze. The sister stumbled 
as the sword she was grabbing for was suddenly several feet away. Li Jun 
grasped her wrist and pointed. “Run!” he cried. The three of them 
scrambled directly at the crowd of troglodytes, who stood like turkeys, 
watching the hornets. 


The monsters—Brindled Vespas he’d called them—didn’t care who 
their victims were. Multiple globs of white spit shot out, splashing into the 
lizards, who in turn raised their clubs and charged at the bugs. 

Both groups of monsters ignored the four humans, who managed to slip 
away and out into the hall. The scene ended with Zhang forcing a healing 
potion into the mouth of their companion before they slipped into a safe 
room. The video snapped off to a mix of jeers and scattered applause. The 
audience’s reaction was subdued, as if they weren’t sure how to respond. 

I looked up at the Maestro, a huge smile on my face. 

“Glurp on that, motherfucker,” I said. 


OceanofPDE:.com 


[ 43 ] 


“UH, LET’S NOW WATCH HOW OUR TWO GUESTS ESCAPED THAT SAFE ROOM,” 
the Maestro said after the audience’s laughter died down. 

The stage went dark as the screen replayed our desperate escape from 
the rage elemental. It showed the scene from the point of view of the 
hallway, with the chopper bursting out of the room, screeching around the 
comer, Donut sitting high on the contraption. The audience roared their 
approval. Next to us, the Maestro screamed and ranted at some unseen 
producer. It was all muted. The large orc seemed to be out of breath and 
enraged. 

“Carl, you scare me when you get that angry,” Donut whispered. 

I reached over and scratched her head. “I’m sorry,” I said. “I’m not 
really as mad as I look. I’m just trying to make him angry.” 

“Tt worked. Now he hates us. I don’t like people hating us. Our 
followers are going to go down.” 

I grunted. “Yeah, I don’t think you need to worry about that. Look, 
Donut. The show isn’t over yet. See those two chairs over there. I think 
its...” 

“Do you think it’s Miss Beatrice?” Donut asked. “Maybe her and her 
boyfriend?” She gasped. “Or maybe it’s Miss Beatrice and Ferdinand.” 

“No, Donut,” I said. “It’s not going to be Bea and whoever the hell...” 

“Listen here, pukes,” the Maestro said, interrupting. He smiled big, but 
his words held no mirth. He’d calmed himself, probably after getting some 
advice from his producer. The audience continued to watch the recap of our 
escape, oohing and ahhing at the explosions. They couldn’t hear this 
exchange. “This is my fucking show. You need to learn your place.” 


“You were never a crawler were you?” I asked. 

He seemed genuinely offended by the question. He laughed with 
derision. “You savages are all the same. I come from a civilized system. My 
family has a long history with the dungeon. We were there when the 
Syndicate created the crawl. We are of gods and royalty.” He indicated the 
tiara on Donut’s head. “If you pukes make it to the 9th floor, you’ll learn all 
about what my family can do.” 

I looked at Donut’s small, jeweled tiara, trying to remember the exact 
description. I hadn’t thought about it for several days. The tooltip system 
didn’t work here, but I recalled part of it. It’s what gave her ability to imbue 
the Septic debuff. Because she’d put it on, she’d become a royal member of 
“The Blood Sultanate.” We could only get off the ninth floor if all other 
members of that family were killed, including the Sultan himself. I had no 
idea what any of that meant. 

I remembered what Mordecai had said. That... That will be a challenge. 
You can always leave the party. That crown is on her head, not yours. 

“Your family?” I asked. “Wait, are you guys part of the Blood 
Sultanate?” 

He laughed again. “Do I look like a fucking Naga to you?” He sat 
straighter. “My family’s Skull Clan has been victorious six times out of the 
last ten Faction Wars. Top three every time. The pitiful Blood Sultanate is 
almost always the first of the nine to get eliminated. You idiots have been 
dead since the moment she put on that crown.” 

I tried to ignore the pit of dread that had formed in my gut. “What about 
you? Are you going to be on the ninth floor?” 

On the screen, Donut and I stood at the edge of the hole to the next floor 
down. The camera was positioned from the POV of the rage elemental. We 
looked tiny standing there, a trail of black smoke rising behind us. The 
entire crowd held its breath as the monstrosity charged. 

“I will be there. I was of age last season, but the stupid Squim 
Conglomerate always plays Battle Royale, which doesn’t have a Faction 
Wars or Celestial Ascendancy segment. But I will be there this year. I’m on 
my way to your stupid planet right now.” He pounded his chest like he was 
a gorilla. “I will be War Leader Maestro of the Skull Clan.” 

I nodded. It always astounded me how easy it was to get assholes to 
talk, as long as they were talking about themselves. “So, if you’re in the 
dungeon, what happens if you get hurt? Do you guys really die?” 


He scoffed. “You think you could actually...” 

The crowd went absolutely apeshit as the scene ended, and the lights 
snapped back on. Donut stood on her hindlegs and raised her two front 
paws in the air. “Thats how it’s done!” she yelled. “Next time, we’ll kill 
that thing ourselves and send pictures to his mama! We’ll tell her to... what 
was it, Carl?” 

“Suck it,” I said. 

“Glurp, glurp! Glurp, glurp!” the audience cried. 

The Maestro was back to his sneering, condescending self. His unseen 
producer was smart enough to explain that having a tantrum during a live 
program would make this spiral even further out of his control. I sighed. 
Whatever happened next, it wasn’t going to be pleasant. Might as well get it 
over with. 

The Maestro waved for the crowd to quiet down. They eventually did. 

“So that’s how you did it. You used the dungeon’s rules to save 
yourselves.” 

I shrugged. “That thing was level 93. We weren’t gonna kill it.” 

The Maestro grinned. “Nobody, not even me, can say you don’t have 
the balls of a Taurin. But a lot of my piglets seem to think you have had it 
too easy. Some say you’ve been stumbling your way through the dungeon, 
only surviving because you’re the Al’s pet. That happens from time to time, 
that the dungeon turns a crawler into its bitch.” He reached over and 
scratched at his hairy chest. His fingernails were disgusting. 

He continued. “I have two surprise guests for our VIPs. You have any 
guesses who they might be, meat?” 

I put my hand on Donut before she could say anything out loud. The last 
thing we needed right now was to give the Maestro ammunition to mock 
her. 

“Can they see us now?” I asked, turning to look at the empty chairs. 

“They’ve been watching this whole time,” the Maestro said. “And man, 
they do not like you.” 

It didn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out who this was. Other than 
Brandon and crew, we’d only come across one other group of crawlers. I’d 
been thinking maybe it was Rory and Lorelai, the goblin shamankas. I 
didn’t know if bringing mobs out of the dungeon was a thing. But I 
remembered that Zhang and Li Jun had waved at them, and I doubted 
they’d have reacted like that toward a pair of scary-looking goblins. 


“Hi, Frank Q. Hi, Maggie My,” I said. “I see you didn’t find the present 
I left for you. That’s too bad.” 

The Maestro smiled huge and for a terrifying moment, I thought I had 
guessed incorrectly. Could it possibly be Beatrice? No, I decided. No 
fucking way. 

“Watch this, piglets,” he said. “Let’s see if they’re right.” 

The video started and I relaxed. It was a recap of Frank and Maggie’s 
journey so far. I watched as the two player killers stumbled into the 
dungeon. But, curiously, they had someone else with them. A teenaged girl. 
It showed them coming into a tutorial guild. We watched as their guide— 
one of those floating brain Mind Horrors—sat the three of them down and 
told them the only way to survive was to kill other crawlers. The guide had 
a deep, rumbly voice, unlike anything I’d heard before. It was terrifying. 
The teenager wept as the guide explained what had to be done. Maggie 
clutched onto the girl, hugging her tightly. 

The scene switched to the girl on the ground, injured and crying. We 
hadn’t seen what had happened. It looked as if she’d maybe been hit with a 
glob of Bad Llama lava. Frank was also injured, convulsing nearby as blood 
pooled around them. The woman, Maggie, sobbed as she went to her knees 
in front of the girl. 

“Mom,” the girl said. “It hurts.” 

“I know baby,” Maggie said. She reached down, and to my utter 
astonishment, she wrapped her hands around the girl’s throat. She choked 
her own daughter until she died. When it was done, Maggie leaned against 
the dungeon wall and wailed. 

“What the hell?” I asked, astounded. I turned to the empty chairs. “You 
didn’t have to do that. She wasn’t dead. She would’ve recovered.” 

The recap continued. We were being shown these scenes out of order. 
This was now something from before the daughter’s death. We watched 
Frank and Maggie and the daughter come across a much larger group. This 
group included Rebecca W and several other men. Frank and Maggie 
introduced themselves as a married couple, and the teenager was their 
daughter, Yvette. They waited until the others’ backs were turned, and Frank 
and Maggie ambushed them. They pulled their guns and shot them all. 
Yvette cried for them to stop. Rebecca and another man fled, and Frank 
chased them. It showed the man running directly into some plant mob thing 
Pd never seen before, and of Frank finally tracking Rebecca down, 


cornering her in the quadrant with the scatterer bugs. The screen split, 
showing Yvette screaming while Maggie tried to calm her. One of the other 
men they’d shot wasn’t dead. Maggie put a gun in Yvette’s hand, told her to 
shoot the man, to get the experience. The girl refused. 

As I expected, Frank’s entire backstory was complete, made-up bullshit. 
I still didn’t know if they were cops or not. I suspected they were. Either 
way, Rebecca W hadn’t been some sort human trafficker. She’d been 
someone like me. Afraid, and at the end, alone. She’d been betrayed and 
hunted down by a fellow human. I thought of the woman’s naked, stripped- 
bare body. I shook my head in disgust. 

The two had received multiple loot boxes from being player killers, 
including a ring that gave Maggie an area-of-effect stealth ability and a 
potion that imbued Frank with the ability to track down nearby crawlers. 

I noted that Maggie’s stealth ability worked like my Protective Shell. It 
cast in a Static, semi-circle area. It didn’t move with them. That was good to 
know. 

I watched as they hunted several other crawlers, most of them people 
wandering about on their own. Most of them appeared to have been 
homeless, some elderly. All of them were afraid. All of them had been so 
happy to see someone else before they were murdered. Yvette was in some 
of these scenes. She wasn’t in others. The girl never participated in the 
killings. 

“The best part is coming up,” the Maestro announced. 

The video, finally, showed a much abridged version of Donut and me 
coming across Frank Q in the saferoom and of them attacking us, of them 
getting frozen. It showed me putting the dynamite in the rat corpse. 

But then, I saw something unexpected. My heart sank the moment I 
realized what was happening. 

“Mom?” Yvette asked, coming out of the bathroom. The girl stopped in 
horror upon seeing both of her parents frozen in the safe room. 

Oh. Oh no, I thought. She’d been there. Yvette had been there the whole 
time. She’d been hiding with her mother under the stealth field. 

I see you didn't find the present I left for you. Now I knew why the 
Maestro had smiled so big when I said that. 

I held my breath as the two murderers and their daughter approached 
the rat corpse. Maggie yelled at Frank not to loot it. He did it anyway. If I 
remembered correctly, we’d left five items in its inventory: a hunk of rat 


steak, a skin, a lit smoke bomb, a lit stick of dynamite, and an unlit, 
unstable stick. Frank only pulled out one item. The lit dynamite stick. He 
dropped it in surprise, and all three turned to run. A moment passed, and the 
dynamite went off. Shrapnel blasted the three crawlers. Yvette went down, 
and so did Frank. A hunk of dislodged rock sheared the man’s hand right 
off. 

A llama hadn’t given those horrible injuries to the teenaged girl. 

I had. 

The scene ended, the lights switched on, and Maggie and Frank 
emerged to our right. 

Donut hissed. The crowd’s response was mixed. Half cheers, half insults 
and screams, as if they weren’t sure whose side they were supposed to be 
on. I spent the moment observing the two crawlers. Frank was missing his 
right hand. But that wasn’t all that had changed about him. The man had a 
hollowed-out, 1,000-yard stare. He looked as if he’d aged ten years in just a 
few days. Do I look like that? His missing hand wasn’t a rounded, healed 
stump like one would expect. It was a straight cut, like he was a mannequin 
whose hand had been removed. 

The woman, Maggie, glared directly at me. 

I returned her stare. “You didn’t have to kill her,” I said when the 
audience finally silenced. “Why did you do that? To get the experience? 
She would’ve healed. Your own daughter? Jesus fuck, lady.” 

“You don’t know,” she said to me, spitting the words. “You don’t know 
anything. You didn’t get the whole story.” 

“She wasn’t dead yet,” I repeated. “She would’ve healed.” 

“Fuck you,” Maggie said. “You don’t know what we’ve had to do to 
survive.” 

“Survive? Your daughter is dead. But it’s okay, because you got credit 
for the kill. I’m sure she’d be so fucking proud,” I said. 

Maggie leaped from her chair, pulling a black dagger that glowed with a 
purple halo. She lunged at me. 

I didn’t flinch. Her jab passed harmlessly through my throat. The dagger 
dropped away as Maggie cried out in pain, clutching her hand. She’d likely 
just stabbed the invisible wall of their production trailer. 

“Children, children,” the Maestro said, plainly enjoying this. He was 
back on familiar ground. “Clearly you guys have a beef with one another.” 


Frank whispered something to Maggie, who returned to her chair. He 
tried to put an arm on her shoulder. She pushed him away. 

“As far as I’m concerned, any business I’ve had with these two has 
already been transacted,” I said. I turned toward Frank and met the man’s 
eyes. The man had changed significantly since the last time we’d seen each 
other. He looked away and down. “I’m sorry about what happened to your 
kid. But fuck you. Fuck both of you. She deserved better. We all would’ve 
been stronger together. Your game guide is a piece of shit.” 

Maggie growled. “I am going to find you, and I am going to watch you 
die. You and the fucking cat.” 

“Oooooh,” the crowd said, like we were on an episode of the 
goddamned Jerry Springer Show. 

“Don’t bring me into this,” Donut said, raising a paw in defense. “I’m 
not the one who went all danger dingo on my own kid.” 

The crowd screamed with laughter. I had to hand it to her. Donut was 
oftentimes caught off guard, but she was highly adaptable. She knew how to 
read a crowd, that was for sure. But as much as I disliked these two 
assholes, they weren’t the real enemy. We needed to end this. This bullshit 
didn’t serve any of us. 

I turned to the Maestro. “Congratulations. You’ve reunited us. We all 
know how she feels about the matter. I’ve said my piece. If that’s all, we’ll 
be going now.” 

“No, no, why so quick to leave?” For the next several minutes, the 
Maestro attempted to ask us leading questions. So why did you kill your 
own daughter? Carl, how does it feel to know you’re partially responsible 
for the death of another human? Maggie said nothing but, “Fuck you.” 
Frank hadn’t said a word this whole time. Donut would only talk directly to 
the audience, and I just grunted responses. 

It was obvious that the orc wasn’t good at asking interview questions, 
especially with a group of hostile guests. The crowd grew restless. 

Donut started making wisecracks. The Maestro tried to ask her 
something, and she just ignored him. She looked directly at the audience 
and said, “I once watched a cocker spaniel lick her own butthole for thirty 
minutes straight. That was more insightful than that question.” 

Eventually, the Maestro threw his large hands in the air and gave up. 
The orc had a panicked look to him. He knew this entire episode had been a 


dumpster fire from the start. But then the orc’s eyes sparkled with one last 
glimmer of hope. I braced myself for whatever bullshit was coming. 

“Well, I have parting gifts for each of the teams,” he said. “Are you 
piglets excited to see what we got for the crawlers?” 

The crowd responded half-heartedly. A few of the audience members 
had already flickered and disappeared from the stream, leaving empty 
spaces in the crowd. 

“Hopefully it’s a door so we can get back to the dungeon,” Donut 
muttered. The audience laughed. But she wasn’t fooling me. The cat was 
shaking with pleasure. Even now, Donut couldn’t contain herself. That 
damn cat loved her presents. 

“Let’s give our VIPs their gift first, shall we?” 

A box appeared in front of me. This was a literal cardboard box. I 
hesitantly reached forward, and it was really there. 

“This is just a present for Carl. Sorry about that, Donut,” the Maestro 
said. He leaned forward expectantly. I could feel Donut deflate next to me. I 
realized I’d been stroking her back without thinking about it. “Carl, I know 
this is something you want really bad. We paid a lot of money to make sure 
you have the very best.” 

I opened the box. You asshole. I had to laugh. It was a perfectly-chosen 
gift to troll me. I probably would’ve laughed even if we’d been on another 
show. 

“Carl. You have boots now!” Donut said. 

It was a brand-new pair of Bates zip-up tactical boots. They were 
identical to the service boots I wore on active duty. I picked one up. Sure 
enough, they were in my size. 

“We even got you socks,” the Maestro said. “They’re in the box!” 

“Thanks!” I said, pulling the box onto my lap. “These will be really 
comfortable when I’m in a safe room!” I put the lid back on. There was no 
way I was going to wear these things. 

Now that my soles had fully acclimated, me wearing shoes would put 
me at a massive disadvantage. I had several buffs and skills that only 
worked if I was barefoot, and the orc knew it. The gift was just him being a 
dick. He was expecting me to react, to rant and rave. He should’ve known 
by now that wasn’t the sort of bait that would snag me. The audience barely 
reacted at all. They either didn’t understand the intended troll or didn’t care. 


“T love them,” I added. I tapped the top of the box, smiling. “I hope they 
weren’t too expensive.” 

The Maestro took a deep breath and gave me his best fuck you glare. He 
turned to Frank and Maggie. “And now, you two. Frank has a skill called 
Find Crawler, which shows you any crawlers within five square 
kilometers.” The Maestro waved his hand. “I don’t think that is good 
enough.” A potion appeared in front of them. Maggie snatched it up, 
looking at it. “That there is a Legendary Skill Potion, taken from my clan’s 
own stock. Either of you drink that fucker down, and it will upgrade your 
Find Crawler skill to level 15.” He turned to look at me, smiling again. 
“That means you can put in any crawler’s name, and it’ll tell you exactly 
where they are, no matter how far.” 

“Wait, can I drink this? Frank is the one with the skill,” Maggie asked. 

“Oh yeah,” he said. “That’ll take you all the way to the top level of 20 if 
you have the right class. But if you take it now, it'll take you up to 15 no 
problem.” 

I sighed. “So, are we done here?” 

The Maestro seemed to be at a loss for words, pissed his gifts hadn’t 
gone over well with the audience. “Uh, thanks to my piglets. You know the 
Maestro takes care of you fuckers. You know what to do!” 

The audience lukewarmly glurp-glurped. 

“Well, we probably won’t be coming back on this show, pork boy,” I 
said, standing up. Donut jumped to my shoulder and waved vigorously at 
the audience. “But I imagine we’ll see each other again soon enough. I look 
forward to kicking your ass all over again on the ninth floor. That is, if 
you’re not too much of a puss to face me.” 

Now that. That garnered a reaction from the crowd. 

As the show ended, and the crowd cheered, finally happy to have 
something to holler about, I turned my attention to the two crawlers sitting 
next to us. Frank continued to stare straight down, a shell of a man. Maggie 
clutched the skill potion to her chest, staring at me. 

For the first time, the woman smiled. 


OceanofPDE com 


[ 44 ] 


Time to Level Collapse: 3 Days, 14 hours 


Views: 1.7 Trillion 
Followers: 439.9 Billion 
Favorites: 42.4 Billion 


“I DON’T UNDERSTAND WHY SHE KILLED HER DAUGHTER,” DONUT SAID 
after we returned to the safe room. She immediately started opening the loot 
boxes from the earlier battle. She received nothing new except two “Trap 
Modules” from her gold sapper’s box. One was called a Spike Module and 
the other an Alarm Module. These were ready-to-go traps, no tinkering 
required. We could upgrade and reconfigure them, but it required the use of 
our sapper’s table, which wouldn’t happen until the fourth floor. 

Despite Mukta’s warning that we’d have a discussion after the show, 
there was no sign of the admin. The program ended, and we’d immediately 
transported back to the room. I still clutched the shoebox in my hands. I 
sighed and put it all in my inventory. I pulled out my pedicure kit and 
started to work on my feet as Donut continued to talk, rapid fire. She’d been 
like this after the last interview, too. She got some sort of adrenaline rush 
from being on camera, even when the show was a disaster. “She had a 
pretty name. Yvette. I like that name. Did you see? She didn’t want to kill 
people. But then her mom killed her. It’s really sad. But I’m also kind of 


relieved, you know what I mean? Since her mom killed her, that means you 
didn’t kill her. It would’ve been an accident, but still.” 

“Aren’t you tired?” I asked. I was exhausted. I rubbed the bottom of my 
foot with the little stone thing. I could just feel the AI watching me. The 
recap show would air in a few hours, and I wanted to get some sleep before 
that. Afterward, we needed to head out. 

Donut plopped herself on my shoulder, settling in to sleep after I 
finished with my feet. 

“He was kind of a jerk, huh? The orc guy, I mean. But do you remember 
what he said? We broke the record.” 

“Yes, Donut,” I said. I closed my eyes. 

“Carl?” 

“What, Donut?” I said, trying not to let the exasperation sound in my 
voice. 

“T heard what he said to you, about the ninth floor, I mean.” 

“Don’t let that idiot bother you.” 

“No, not the orc. I mean Mordecai. When he told you that you should 
leave me when we get to that floor. I heard him.” 

“Let’s worry about getting to the third floor before we even think about 
something as far away as the ninth. We don’t even know what the hell that 
is all about.” 

“Okay,” she said, her voice small. She finally settled next to me, and she 
was asleep before I was. 


I slept through the first part of the recap episode. I awakened to find Donut 
sitting on the chair, her attention on the screen. She looked back at me. 
“They haven’t mentioned us yet. But they showed those guys from Africa, 
Le Mouvement. They found a city boss. It was a just a see-through blob the 
size of a house! It killed all of them. There was one guy on the outside of 
where they were locked in, and now he’s all alone. Everyone died except 
him. They showed him sitting on the ground just crying for like a minute 
straight. The blob looked like it was made of Jell-O. They couldn’t figure 
out how to hurt it. I bet fire would’ve worked. They didn’t have much room 


to run around, though. The boss room was a series of tubes, like a sewer 
system.” 

“Christ,” I said, looking up at the screen. It now showed Lucia Mar 
smashing a Brindled Vespa into pieces with her mace. She had some sort of 
personal, magical shield I’d never noticed before. The hornet spat at her, 
and the white glob hit the shield, sizzling and floating in the air a good two 
inches from the side of her head. 

“No wonder,” I grumbled. 

The last ten minutes of the show were dedicated to our escape. The 
recap was almost identical to the one they’d showed on the Maestro’s show, 
but with added music and better production values. They showed close-up 
freeze frames of the MOAB and spinning, 3D renderings of the individual 
bombs. 

It showed the rage elemental tumbling into the hole, and the oh shit 
baby exploding right next to it. We watched as the monster’s health bar 
plummeted, almost hit zero, and then the monster dissolved. 

Experience Denied. Slammed onto the screen. 

“Hey, that wasn’t fair,” Donut cried. “We would’ve killed it if it hadn’t 
dissolved!” 

“Maybe,” I said. I was suspicious about how easy it was to do damage 
to the elemental, considering its high level. Either my bombs were 
overpowered, or the monster was especially weak for its level. 

I suspected there was something else we were missing. The monster 
probably split in two or blew up on death or something equally horrible. It 
was almost as if the game was daring us to summon another one and to try 
kill it fair and square this time. We’d probably rocket up a dozen levels if 
we managed it. I could already think of a dozen ways to summon one and 
have something waiting for it, something that’d kill it for sure. Once you 
knew how the monster worked, it wasn’t so difficult. It had to be a trap. 

The show ended with Imani pausing at the scorched entrance to the 
third floor. She looked up into the air and raised a middle finger before 
going inside. 

The show ended, and I suddenly felt very alone. The feeling came out of 
nowhere. I thought of that last member of Le Mouvement, of being locked 
outside the boss area, only to find everyone he knew was just gone. What a 
nightmare. 

I looked up at the ticker. 990,303. 


We’d gone below one million, and I hadn’t noticed. For every person 
that ticked away, I felt I was losing a part of myself, a part of my humanity. 
I thought of what Donut had said before we’d fallen asleep, and of the 
unspoken question she had asked and of the answer I hadn’t given her. 

The announcement came, and even though I knew it was coming, the 
sudden, booming voice surprised me. 

Hello Crawlers, 

Keep up the good work. Everything is running smoothly. Now that 
we’ve reached the halfway point of the level, game guides are now able 
to instruct you upon some of the intricacies regarding the third floor 
and how the race and class selection process works. Be sure to visit 
your game guide prior to descending in order to make the transition 
more smooth. 

Effective immediately, any non-sapient mobs who happen upon a 
stairwell will not be disintegrated. Yes, we all just watched that rule get 
exploited on the recap episode. It was very clever and very exciting. But 
it’s not going to happen again. 

The System AI has determined the proliferation of the Brindled 
Vespas is too aggressive, and we have halved the number of these mobs 
currently in the dungeon. In addition, the damage from their spitting 
acid attack has been adjusted down. Slightly. Please note, new Brindle 
Grubs will continue to generate upon the creation of a corpse, but each 
one now only has a 50% chance to proceed to the pupa stage. 

That’s it for now. Now go out there and kill, kill, kill! 

The moment the announcement ended, a message popped up. 

Admin Notice. A new tab is available in your interface. 

I blinked. That was unexpected. I opened up my interface, and indeed, 
there was a new section. ACCOUNTS. I clicked on it. 

There was only one item: 

Creator’s Fee. Carl’s Jug O’ Boom. Royalty: 1 Gold Coin per Kill. 
Current kills: 4. 

There was a button. Cash Out Now. Below that was a very small line 
that I could barely read. There was no way to zoom in. I had to squint to 
read it. 

Count updates once daily. Two gold coins plus 25% Deposit fee, 
rounded up, deducted upon cash out. Funds not deposited are subject 
to forfeiture upon death. 


“Twenty-five percent!” I said. “Highway robbery.” If I cashed out now, 
Pd only receive a single gold coin. If Pd had five coins, Pd still only 
receive one coin because they rounded the fee up. 

“What?” Donut asked. 

I waved my hand. “It’s nothing. Pll explain later. Let’s get going.” 

“Are we running? Is that what we’re doing? Hiding from Frank Q and 
Maggie My?” 

“No,” I said. “That was my first instinct, but now that I’ve slept on it, 
I’ve changed my mind. That woman is hell-bent on hunting us down, and 
we’re going to have to deal with it sooner rather than later. I don’t know if 
they’re coming now or not. I’d much rather be ready for her than have her 
sneak up behind us.” 

“But how can we do that? They can track us and go invisible, and we 
can’t do either of those.” 

“Her invisibility is not nearly as powerful as I first thought. We’ll need 
to take out the local neighborhood boss and get that map. It’ll make our 
lives much easier...” 

Warning: You may not wield your weapons while in the presence of 
Admins. Any attempted violence against an Admin will result in your 
immediate execution. 

“Shit,” I said, looking up at the ceiling. “Mukta is coming.” 

Pop! Water splashed over my feet, and a familiar, armored kua-tin 
appeared. My interface snapped off. 

“Zev!” Donut cried. “Where were you! I was worried.” 

“Hello, Carl, hello, Princess Donut. I’m here for your show debriefing.” 

“Are you okay?” Donut asked. 

“Yes, thank you,” Zev said. “I was censured by the System AI. I was 
given a suspension because the system determined that I had cheated by 
warning you of the rage elemental before it appeared. My representative 
appealed the decision on my behalf, and upon further review, it was 
determined that you’d noticed the man urinating simultaneously with my 
exclamation, so the censure was removed from my record.” She sighed, 
filling her mask with bubbles. “But even though my record is technically 
clean, it’s not really. Once the AI notices you, it’s difficult to get it to un- 
notice you, so I have to be extra careful from now on.” 

“Are we in trouble?” Donut asked. “That orc guy was really mean to 
Carl.” 


“No,” Zev said. “It was improper for you to attempt to disengage from 
the interview, but the Borant corporation wishes to commend you for 
showing proper respect to the organization. They’re actually quite pleased 
with you right now.” 

“Commend us?” I said. “Really?” Proper respect? The thought of 
giving respect to anything Borant did made me sick. Anyone who mistook 
fear for respect was a fool. 

“The politics regarding all of this is too complicated to even begin to 
explain. However, that particular production, while technically private, is 
owned and operated by a prince of a faction that is allied with another 
faction that is at odds with the Borant system. All of it would make your 
head spin if I were to explain it to you.” 

“If you don’t like those guys, then why did you let them interview us? 
That show is awful, Zev. It’s...” It’s almost as cruel as the game itself, I 
almost said. “It’s abusive.” 

She nodded. “And I would like to apologize. Mukta should never have 
booked it. The show I had scheduled also caters to the younger crowd, but it 
would be a discussion regarding specific tactics you use in the dungeon. 
They do it in a creative, silly way. But to answer your question, Borant is 
not allowed to discriminate against Syndicate-member production 
companies. Especially when said companies are tied to production 
sponsors. This is monitored very closely by the AI. Anything to do with 
money is watched carefully, especially this season.” 

“So that Maestro asshole is a prince?” I asked. “No wonder he’s such a 
cheesedick. I didn’t realize he was royalty. I assumed the show didn’t have 
very much money.” 

“He is a prince,” Zev said. “But that production is owned by his older 
brother, Crown Prince Stalwart. I think their father gives them a small 
stipend to make the show, probably to keep them busy.” 

I thought of that voice that had threatened us when we’d attempted to 
bail. If that was him, he seemed just as much of a douche as his younger 
brother. “Prince Stalwart? That name is almost as bad as ‘the Maestro.’” 

“They’re orcs. Everything they do is mawkish.” 

I had no idea what the word “mawkish” meant, but I assumed it 
translated to “cheesy.” “So these guys are different than the tusklings? I 
know they are obviously a different race, but I thought the tusklings were 
the rulers of all the orcs.” 


“The tusklings are the rulers of the Orcish Supremacy. Stalwart and the 
Maestro are princes of the Skull Empire. That’s a whole different system. If 
the Orcish Supremacy is a child with a lemonade stand, the Skull Empire is 
the Wal-Mart corporation. It’s one of the largest and oldest Syndicate 
governments.” 

“Yeah, he’d said something about creating the crawl.” I glanced down at 
Donut. “He also talked a bit about the ninth floor. How he’s going to be 
there.” 

“Sorry, I can’t really discuss that yet. Mordecai is now authorized to tell 
you about the third floor, but that’s it.” 

“Is there anything you can tell us?” I asked. 

She looked pained. “What I can say is that every three floors are the 
same setting. Sort of. The third, sixth, ninth and so forth are all linked in a 
way that will later become clear.” 

I thought about what Mordecai had whispered to me earlier, that Borant 
was trying to end the game as soon as possible. 

“What if all the crawlers die before the ninth floor even starts?” 

“That probably isn’t going to happen,” she said. “It’s starting to look 
like we’ll get there much faster than usual, but we’ve never had a full player 
extinction before the ninth floor. It happens on the ninth floor a lot, but not 
before it. Again, I can’t tell you much, but those floors ... three, six, nine, 
twelve, fifteen, and eighteen, all come into existence at the same time. You 
can only visit them in context with the rest of the crawl, but that doesn’t 
mean they’re not being utilized. Whatever happens on the ninth and twelfth 
floors happens with or without the crawlers. It’s a game within the game 
where you are not the main focus. At least not until you get there. Sorry, 
that’s all I can say.” 

“Okay,” I said. “I was just wondering. I’m not going to worry about it 
until we get there, I guess.” 

“That’s the spirit! Now we need to talk about the next couple of days. I 
was just brainstorming with my team, and we agree that you two need to 
concentrate on building up your character. You’re already in a good 
position, but a couple extra levels would really help you out. Now that the 
Meadow Lark storyline is completed, we can wait a day or two before 
really focusing on the next story arc.” 

“Story arc?” I said. “Really?” 

“How is this thing with Maggie and Frank going over?” Donut asked. 


Zev waved dismissively. “It has potential, but it’s already tired. Those 
two have a good amount of followers, especially after last night, but not 
many people think they’re going to survive long enough for that Maggie 
lady to make good on her threat. She’s not very charismatic, and she’s 
acting more and more irrationally. This gripe you have with Prince Maestro 
is getting much more attention, especially with that Pork Boy Snick that just 
showed up. Two hours old, and it’s already trending all over the social 
media tunnels. But like we’ve already discussed, that whole story won’t 
bear fruit until much later. We feel you can get away with coasting for a few 
days until you hit the next floor down, but once you do hit the over city, you 
really need to focus on something compelling. Just train, and try not to be 
too boring. Maybe take out a boss or two. And don’t pick anything weird 
during race selection.” 

“Back up,” I said. “What the hell is a ‘Pork Boy Snick?’” 

She chuckled nervously. “Yeah, I need to tell you about this. So, you 
have... had... a similar phenomenon on earth. Are you familiar with the 
concept of fan fiction?” 

“Wait, what’s that?” Donut asked. 

Zev whirled on Donut. “Oh my gods, Donut. You would love it. There 
was this whole website, and it was filled with stories about Gossip Girl. But 
it was written by people like you and me. Actual fans, not the writers. So 
the stories aren’t real. Or canon, they called it. But some were great! I tried 
writing one once, but it didn’t get many views.” 

“That sounds like the greatest thing in the world,” Donut said. “You can 
make it so the show never ends! Wait. People are writing stories about us? 
Me and Carl?” 

“Yeah, so a snick is kind of like a fan fiction, but it’s a video. So it’s like 
a fan fiction movie. You can experience the scene from any of the 
character’s point of view, or you can just watch it. This particular video is 
short, and a little, what is the word? Um, explicit.” 

“What was in the video?” Donut asked. “What do you mean by explicit? 
Was I in it?” 

“No,” Zev said. “Just Carl. Carl and the Maestro. And let’s just say Carl 
has the upper hand during the scene.” 

“Uh,” I said. I tried to think of something to say, but I couldn’t think of 
anything. “Who made it?” 


“So, that’s the interesting part. It’s a bit of a mystery. It showed up just a 
few hours after your interview. Nobody knows where it came from. But it 
went very viral, very fast. The quality is flawless. In fact, it came out so 
fast, some people think it’s real. It’s not... Right?” 

“Are you asking me if I fucked the orc?” 

“Wait, it’s a sex tape? With Carl and the Maestro?” Donut said. She 
practically fell off her chair, laughing. “And I thought it was going to be a 
bog witch that finally stole his heart.” 

“Tt is a little funny,” Zev said. “But the Skull Empire probably isn’t 
going to find it amusing. They haven’t reacted yet, at least not officially. 
They’re not known for their measured responses to insults.” 

“Is it an insult, though?” I asked. “I’m not gay, but does it matter? The 
tusklings seem to be very open with, you know, weird stuff. Do people 
really care?” 

“Its not that,” Zev said. “You’re right, most wouldn’t care. But this is a 
prince of the Skull Empire. And that video is both graphic and humiliating. 
You two... say things to each other.” 

“Can we watch it?” Donut asked. “I want to watch it!” 

“That sort of thing has to happen all the time,” I said. “That prince is 
such a cockwomble, I can’t imagine the intergalactic internet isn’t filled 
with stuff like that.” 

“Oh, it is. This is different. The quality is so good, and it is just 
everywhere right now. Everyone is calling the Prince ‘Pork Boy’ and, uh, 
‘Carl’s Naughty Little Piggie.” You have to watch the video. Anyway, if the 
Skull Empire demands people stop calling him that, it’s going to be just like 
the mudskipper thing all over again. In the past hour, your appearance fee 
has doubled. You’re now equal with Lucia Mar. The fact this has happened 
at the expense of the Skull Empire has made the Party very happy with 
you.” 

“Oh shit,” I said, any sense of amusement fleeing. “The last thing we 
need is some giant sponsor gunning for us. Any interview we do, they’re 
just going to ask me about it, and I can tell you right now, there’s nothing 
I’m willing to say to make those assholes hate me less.” 

“There’s no such thing as bad publicity,’ Zev said. “Borant’s official 
stance on this is that as long as you do not disparage the company, the party, 
or the Syndicate itself, any opinion you air about other governments will 
not be met with any sort of punitive action. Besides, there’s not much the 


other governments can do to you. Not until the sixth floor. Or if they spring 
for a deity sponsorship this season. But anyway, don’t worry about anything 
happening outside your floor. That’s my job. Now I gotta get going. Your 
next scheduled appearance is on Odette’s show. In the meantime, I’ll be 
available on chat. Bye to both of you.” 

A moment later, she popped away, splashing water all over the floor. 

“Tm glad she’s okay,” Donut said. “I feel bad we got her in trouble.” 

I barely heard her. I couldn’t stop thinking about the video. This Skull 
Empire government had to know how much of an asshole that prince was. 
Plus they couldn’t blame me for something I didn’t make. Could they? 

My HUD snapped back on. The first thing I noticed was that my 
followers had increased significantly in the past hour. With the combination 
of the recap episode and this stupid video, that feeling of loneliness I’d felt 
earlier was all but gone. I now felt like a bug under a microscope. I 
wondered how many people really thought that the snick was real. I always 
wondered that about conspiracy theorists. I always suspected most of them 
were just trolling. Surely the real number couldn’t be very many. 

“Carl, darling. I can’t believe you hooked up with that guy,” Donut said 
loudly. She pushed at the door, heading out of the room. “He sure squealed 
a lot, though.” Her laughter trailed off into the hallway. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. 


OceanofPDF.com 


FINDING THE BOSS CHAMBER OF THE KOBOLDS WAS EASY. 

Heavy, thrumming metal music blasted through the halls. It was a 
cacophony of sound with growling, deep vocals and guitars that were 
almost seizure-like. I couldn’t tell if the vocalist was singing in English, or 
if he was even human at all. The words sounded like deeply distorted 
barking. Considering the enemies of this quadrant, I wouldn’t be surprised 
if the singer was a kobold or a dingo. 

We followed the sound, which grew louder and louder until it was 
physically painful. Donut and I couldn’t talk to one another, and we had to 
rely on the chat to communicate. We killed a half dozen kobolds and an 
equal number of dingoes along the way, plus a handful of the brindle grubs. 
Both of us hit level 12 by the time we approached the source. 

Donut: THIS MUSIC IS MAKING MY HEAD HURT. WHY 
CAN’T THEY PLAY SOMETHING GOOD? LIKE OASIS. 

Carl: Oasis? Where did you get that from? Even Bea didn’t listen to 
Oasis. 

Donut: NO MISS BEATRICE LIKES COUNTRY MUSIC. 
THAT’S JUST AS BAD AS THIS. 

Carl: Yeah, that should’ve been my first warning. 

Donut: THERE IS THE BOSS CHAMBER. 

The outer kobold boss chamber was set up as a giant dog kennel. The 
text on the walls was in Portuguese, indicating the place had been some sort 
of municipal dog pound. It was a group of three long hallways flanked by 
cages. There was a secondary, main chamber with a door at the end of the 


middle hallway, but we already knew from experience that whatever the 
boss was going to be, it would likely come out of that second room. That 
second door was huge, like the double doors of a barn. An ominous sign. 

Most of the cages were empty, but not all of them. Each row had four or 
five locked pens with danger dingoes within. I didn’t see any signs of the 
kobolds. A handful of cages also contained the Xs of dead monsters. Here, 
in this context, the large dingoes looked especially dog-like, and I suddenly 
felt an uneasy sympathy for them. The monsters didn’t bark or attack the 
cages as we passed by them. They sat there, curled up, looking pitiful. 

Their dots, however, remained red on the minimap. 

Donut: SHOULD WE KILL THEM? WE SHOULD PROBABLY 
KILL THEM. 

It would be easy, free experience. And I knew once that boss chamber 
opened, these doors would likely also open. But it felt wrong. I remembered 
Mordecai’s advice regarding the boss rooms. Look for the clues. 

Carl: Hang on. Not yet. Let’s try to figure out what’s going on here. 

I stopped at one of the cages. The dingo was on its side, breathing 
heavily, its back turned. 

“Hey buddy, you doing okay?” I said, yelling the words. I couldn’t even 
hear my own voice. 

The dingo looked up, turning its head toward me. He was missing an 
eye, a recent injury. His white face paint mixed red with blood. Then I 
noticed the injuries on his side, a mixture of old scars and new ones around 
his flank and along the side of his neck. 

The song ended. A moment later, a new one started, just as loud and 
heavy. But in that brief moment of silence I heard something coming from 
the main boss chamber. 

Cheering. 

I knew, then, what this was. 

Goddamnit, I thought. I hated this place. I hated it so damn much. I 
looked up at the boss room door. 

I searched my inventory. I didn’t have any Scrolls of Heal Critter left, 
but I did have a ton of pet biscuits. Donut still ate them despite being 
classified as a regular crawler. But unless we were locked in the dungeon 
for fifty years, we’d never run out of the food. I took a single biscuit from 
my inventory and tossed it into the cage. 

Donut: CARL WHAT ARE YOU DOING. THAT IS MY FOOD. 


Carl: I’m trying something. Let’s see what happens. 

Donut: THIS IS A BETRAYAL MOST FOUL. 

Carl: You know the viewers can’t see this chat. Don’t be such a 
drama queen. 

The dingo painfully pulled himself up, sniffed at the food, and he ate the 
tiny biscuit. He sat back down and turned his back. 

The dot on the minimap blinked and turned white. 

Yes. 

We repeated the process for all the other dingoes in the cages. There 
was a total of fourteen of them. Most of them were in similar shape to the 
first one. 

Three cages also contained dead danger dingoes. I debated whether or 
not to have Donut raise them from the dead prior to the battle, but there 
didn’t seem to be a way to open the cages. Donut’s ten-mana Second 
Chance spell was now level five. Instead of reanimating the corpses for five 
minutes, once she hit level five, they now remained animated for ten 
minutes, which was usually long enough to finish out a battle. She could 
now apparently resurrect monsters up to five levels higher than herself. 

She currently had a pool of 28 mana points. She had two pieces of mana 
toast and a pile of mana restoration potions, though with her two-minute 
cooldown between potions, their use in battle became negligible. So we 
decided to wait and see what we faced first. 

My plan wasn’t too exciting, but it was safe. The door to the main 
chamber didn’t seem to be opening, at least not yet, so we were going to use 
our tried-and-true method of firebomb and run. 

But just as I pulled a boom jug out of my inventory, our luck ran out. 

The music abruptly stopped. My ears rang, feeling heavy in my head. 
Within the chamber, the cheering ceased. The double barn doors started to 
open. Behind us, the door to the secondary chamber slammed shut. Above, 
new, more familiar music started to play. 

Boss Battle! 

That’s right! You have discovered another lair of a Neighborhood 
Boss! 

Put your game faces on ladies and gentlemen! Aaaand Here. We. 
Go! 

“Shit,” I said, scrambling toward the barn doors. As I ran, I had a brief 
moment to marvel at how much I’d changed in the past week. My original 


instinct would’ve been to hide. Instead, I ran toward the danger. 

I lit the torch on the jug, and I tossed it directly at the still-opening 
doors. Just as the jug took flight, the doors flew all the way open, revealing 
a mass of about 40 kobolds emerging from the room, cheering and chanting. 
I did not see any boss at all. 

The world froze with the jug in midair. It hung like a comet. The group 
of kobolds were just starting to look up at the object in the air, rocketing 
toward them, their eyes registering surprise. 

My eyes focused on the kobold in the center of the congregation. He 
still appeared to be one of the level-five kobold riders, but he was much 
better dressed. He wore what appeared to be a fur coat made out of dingo 
fur and wore spiked boots, making him a head taller than the others. In his 
hands he held a small, metal-reinforced cage, about the size of a shoebox. 
His hands were frozen in the act of pulling open the enclosure, the little 
entrance pointed directly at us like a gun barrel. 

Uh-oh, I thought. 

Our mugshots splattered into view, and the Versus stamped onto the 
image. 

Ralph 

Frenzied Gerbil 

Level 11 Neighborhood Boss! 

Before we send you off to certain death, it’s time for a short history 
lesson. 

When the Black Death swept through 14th century Europe, killing 
upwards of 200 million people and forever altering the course of 
human history, one of the original culprits of the epidemic was said to 
be the black rat, carrying plague-infested fleas into population centers 
to wreak their destruction. 

This is, in fact, not true. The true perpetrator was actually the 
Asian great gerbil, who took advantage of the warmer climate to travel 
the silk road and bring the disease into Europe. 

This is only important to know because Ralph, champion pit fighter 
of the kobold training grounds, lives his life in a perpetual state of rage. 
Why? Because he feels that human death toll of 200 million is much too 
low, and he will do everything in his power to triple that number. 

Starting with you. 


The only survivor of a family of gerbils left to starve by a child 
who’d grown bored with the pets, Ralph had to commit unspeakable 
acts of cannibalism in order to endure. 

Part earth rodent, part the embodiment of death, Frenzied Gerbils 
are regular mobs one might encounter on the fifth or seventh floors. 
But Ralph here is special. He has dedicated his existence to fighting and 
training in hopes that one day he might exact his revenge against the 
humans he so despises. 

He is fast, he is angry, and by the time you’re done reading this, he’s 
already halfway to your jugular. 

You might want to duck. 

The moment the extra-long description ended, the world unfroze, and 
chaos erupted all around us. 

I threw my body to the ground just as the furry, squealing rodent sailed 
over my head. He’d shot out of the carrier so fast I hadn’t even seen him. 

At the same moment, the boom jug exploded in the midst of the 
kobolds, evaporating most of them instantly, including Ralph’s owner, the 
pimped-out kobold. 

The fist-sized ball of fur screamed with rage as he landed harmlessly 
down the long hallway. Donut jumped to my shoulder and shot a magic 
missile at the tiny monster, and she scored a direct hit. It flew further back, 
sliding and tumbling. A health bar appeared, indicating she’d taken maybe 
15% of its health away. 

“Good shot,” I cried. 

The tiny boss looked mostly like a regular gerbil with the exception of 
its mouth, which defied logic and physics. Its ravening jaw appeared normal 
when closed, but when the tiny, absurdly cute creature screamed, its mouth 
opened huge, just as wide as the dingoes it fought in the arena. It squealed 
angrily now, and its mouth burst open, obscuring the small creature attached 
to it. This was a round, frothing set of gnashing teeth big enough for me to 
stick my entire head within. 

“All righty then,” I said, standing to my full height as the creature 
snarled at us and prepared to charge again. 

“Carl, I can’t help but think this boss has been placed here for a very 
specific purpose,” Donut said. She shot it again with a magic missile, but 
this one missed. The gerbil squealed and jumped back. 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 


Most of the kobolds were dead, but a few at the edges of the blast had 
survived. One kobold, trailing blood, dragged itself to the wall and pressed 
a button recessed against the wall near the barn doors. A deep rumbling 
filled the chamber as the cages all started to open. 

“Bad idea, buddy,” I called to the kobold. 

The dingoes emerged from their cages. Their dots on the minimap 
remained white. They slunk low, growling. Most of them were still injured, 
in obvious pain. But whatever spell had kept them under the control of their 
kobold slave masters had been broken by a simple act of kindness. 

One of the dingoes—that first one we’d fed—leaped out and pounced 
right onto Ralph. It happened quick, lightning fast. The one-eyed dingo 
swallowed the rodent whole in a swift, snapping gulp. Just like that, and the 
boss was gone. 

Behind us, the remaining kobolds fell back as the other dingoes turned 
on their former masters, dropping upon them and ripping them apart 
savagely. The kobolds weren’t armed, and there weren’t many of them. The 
barking, snarling dingoes finished them off in seconds. 

If we hadn’t turned the dingoes on our side, this would’ve been a much 
more difficult battle. That had been the “trick” of this particular boss room. 
I silently thanked Mordecai for his advice. As unfair as this world was, it 
was still a game. There were puzzles and hidden paths to survival, and we 
needed to continue to keep our eyes open. 

“Well, that was quite easy,” Donut said. “And a little anticlimactic, if I 
must say so.” She looked back at the first dingo, the one who’d eaten the 
boss. “I guess I was wrong.” 

I looked about the room. The kobolds were all dead. From the main 
boss chamber, the sound of multiple, unknown creatures started to howl and 
trill and yip. These weren’t particularly loud or menacing sounds, and I 
could barely hear them over the background music. None of them sounded 
like dingoes. Now that the smoke was clearing, I could see within the boss 
chamber. Like I expected, it was a small fighting arena. More cages circled 
the distant walls. I couldn’t see the contents from this distance, but it was a 
mix of red and white dots. I suspected if we hadn’t killed the kobolds so 
quickly, one of them would’ve likely run back in and opened those cages as 
well. 

The boss music still played, and the realization startled me. “This isn’t 
over yet,” I said. “We’re missing something.” I formed a fist, preparing for 


an attack. “And what did you mean? What were you wrong about?” 

The other dingoes all slinked away. Some bared their teeth at us as they 
passed, but in a submissive gesture, not an angry one. This close, the 
massive, 200-pound dingoes were even more terrifying to behold. While 
they all wore the white face paint, none wore it exactly the same. They 
congregated at the end of the chamber by the locked door. They scratched at 
the exit, like dogs wanting to go outside. 

The one-eyed dingo who’d eaten Ralph continued to stand where he’d 
swallowed the miniature boss. He seemed frozen in place. The creature 
looked at us and started to whine. 

Donut looked pointedly at my foot. “It’s a small rodent. Your feet are all 
nice and shiny. As Miss Beatrice used to say, ‘Time to pay the Daddy tax.’” 

“Wait, what? Under what circumstances would she say that?” 

At that moment, the dingo’s head exploded. 

The creature looked at us, cocked its head to the side, and then boom. 
Red and white gore splattered everywhere. The still-alive gerbil burst forth, 
flying directly at my throat. It was halfway across the room before the poor, 
headless dingo hit the ground. The tiny, furry rocket squealed. 

Pd been ready. I Mike Tysoned it with all my strength. The gerbil 
bounced off the floor with a sickening crunch, sliding until it hit the edge of 
a cage. Its health was suddenly in the deep red. 

It had Stunned over its head with a 15 second timer. 

My gauntlet only had a two percent chance to inflict Stun on monsters. 
Pd never, not once, gotten the debuff to activate until now. With a baleful 
glance at the ceiling, I took two steps toward the tiny, unmoving form. For a 
moment, I contemplated just punching it to death. 

Time to pay the Daddy tax. 

“If it makes you feel better, she was talking about you. You’re the 
daddy,” Donut said, looking down at the almost-dead boss. 

“No, Donut,” I said. “That does not make me feel better. That’s the 
opposite of making me feel better.” 

I placed my bare, right foot upon the small monster. 

“Sorry, Ralph,” I said. 


OceanofPDF.com 


THE DUNGEON GROANED. IT FUCKING GROANED. 

I sighed as I wiped my foot on the metal bar of the cage. The entire 
dungeon rumbled as if it was experiencing a small earthquake. My HUD 
flickered. I felt dirty and sick. I rubbed my foot over and over, but the blood 
wouldn’t come off. 

The boss fight officially ended, and the distant door opened. The 
thirteen danger dingoes fled into the hallway, scattering away to the wind. 

I looted the neighborhood map. Dozens of red dots filled the hallways. 
These were newly-generated brindle grubs. I watched as the white dots of 
the dingoes continued to run toward the main artery hall, snatching up and 
killing the grubs they passed. The dingoes, as a pack, hit the main passage 
and their dots disappeared. 

I wondered what would happen if they ran across another group of 
crawlers. Probably nothing good, at least not for the crawlers. Either way, 
they wouldn’t bother us again. 

“Let’s see what’s in this main room,” I said. 

We stepped over the slagged, still smoldering remains of the kobolds. 
Most of their bodies had been destroyed. I picked through what was left, 
looting a few spiked helmets and gold coins here and there. One had a scroll 
of Heal Critter and a handful of pet biscuits. 

The small gerbil cage lay on the floor, undamaged by the fire. I tossed it 
into my inventory. 

The kobold who’d pressed the button to open the cages also had a key. I 
examined its properties. 


Master Pen Key 

Opens the individual cages of both the fighters and the bait animals 
within the kobold fighting pits. This key is magically attuned to the 
kobold race. If you are not a kobold and attempt to use this key, it will 
only work once before breaking. 

Choose wisely. 

We stepped into the arena, and I was immediately assaulted by the 
stench of death. A small, round fighting arena stood empty. The dirt floor 
was stained red. Against the left wall stood a pile of bones as tall as the 
ceiling. Several dozen chairs made of hardened wood circled the arena. I 
picked them up and looted them all before approaching the line of cages 
against the back of the chamber. 

The moment we approached the cages, each filled with a different type 
of monster, two achievements popped up. 

New achievement! Ill take the ceramic dalmatian, Pat! 

You have discovered a reward room! Scattered throughout the 
dungeon, reward rooms offer crawlers items generally not available 
within loot boxes. Most reward rooms only allow one choice. So, if 
you’re in a party of multiple people, tell them I said you should get the 
prize, not them. 

Reward: Don’t be a greedy bitch. The goddamned room is the 
reward. 


New achievement! Menagerie! 

You have discovered a pet reward room. From caterpillars who 
secrete vodka to basilisks who can turn mobs to stone, a good pet can 
make the difference between survival and the end of the road. Just 
remember what happened with Harambe. There ain’t no zookeepers 
around to shoot the monster’s ass if you bite off more than you can 
chew. 

Reward: You have a key. It opens only one cage. Figure it out, 
Einstein. 

“Well, shit,” I said, looking over the choices. “I guess we’re getting a 
pet.” 

“I get to pick,” Donut said. “The thing said it was my prize.” 


“Yeah, Donut. It said the same thing to both of us. It’s trying to get us to 
fight.” 

“Really? Well that was mean.” She gasped as she noticed the very last 
cage. “Carl, Carl, give me the key!” 

There was a line of ten cages. None of the creatures looked particularly 
impressive. But then again, that gerbil hadn’t looked too impressive either. 
Still, I suspected since this was only the second floor and the first of these 
treasure rooms we’d come across, none of these guys were super rare or 
valuable. 

I was hesitant about this. In most games I’d played, you could only have 
one pet at a time. Would that be the case here? If so, how hard was it to give 
up the pet? I had no idea. 

The first animal was a parrot thing with a long beak, and it was easily 
the loudest thing here. Its dot was red. I examined it, but the system didn’t 
give me any info other than its name. Juvenile Riven Wing. 

The next was a green slime, then a rat, then a meatball with two legs 
and a mohawk called a Tummy Acher. Of the first four, only the slime and 
the rat had white dots. A row of equally-pitiful animals followed, looking 
up at us, including a white-tagged brindle grub. I thought of those massive, 
deadly Brindled Vespas and thought maybe that’d be a good choice. 

But Donut only had eyes on that last cage. 

It was a chicken dinosaur thing with pink, downy feathers. The monster 
cooed up at the cat, making a chirping noise. 

The thing looked pitiful. I immediately saw why Donut liked it. It 
landed firmly in the it’s-so-damn-ugly-it’s-cute category. It was probably 
seven inches tall. It stood on two legs and cocked its head at me. The damn 
thing looked like a raw piece of chicken with a few, random pink-hued 
feathers attached to it. It had two tiny forearms instead of wings, and a long, 
serpentine tail. It squawked, opening its beaked mouth, revealing a row of 
sharp, tiny teeth. 

It was called a Mongoliensis. It was also red-tagged. 

“Is it a boy or girl?” Donut asked. “How can I tell? If it’s a boy I’m 
gonna call him Mongo.” The chicken thing chirped at Donut. “Tf it’s a girl 
I’m naming her Sissy.” 

“Tt looks like dinner,” I said. “I think we should get the brindle grub.” 

“Give it a pet biscuit,” Donut said. “See if its dot changes to white.” 


I sighed and pulled a pet biscuit out. I tried to toss it into the cage, but a 
blue forcefield appeared, blocking the treat. The chicken cried in outrage 
and slammed its head against the bars. All up and down the row, all the 
creatures started squealing and squawking. 

If we were going to get a pet, I knew it would be for the best to let 
Donut have the creature. I didn’t know for certain what attribute counted 
the most toward keeping it happy and not murdering us in our sleep, but I 
imagined charisma had a major role. And maybe strength. Donut outranked 
me in both. I weighed whether or not I should attempt to overrule her. 

“If it’s a girl, we can get her a little dress, and she can sit on my 
shoulder when we do interviews. Can’t you just see it? Pl be like Paris 
Hilton with Tinkerbell.” 

“Donut,” I said. “I really think..” 

Warning: The cages will permanently close in thirty seconds. 
Translation: hurry the hell up. 

“Carl, quick! Please, please, please! I’ll never ask for anything ever 
again. I promise!” 

I sighed. “It’s going to attack us. I’ll grab it, and you try feeding it.” 

I took the key, and I jammed it into the lock of the mongoliensis cage. I 
cracked the door, and the little bastard shot out. I grasped it in both hands. It 
started thrashing and attempting to bite me. The thing barely weighed 
anything at all. 

I had to sit on the ground while Donut pulled a few pet biscuits from her 
inventory. They appeared on the ground in front of the thing. It continued to 
fight me, but it slowed down, eyeing the food. I eased my double-handed 
grip enough for it to peck at the food like a chicken. It took a few bites then 
squawked. 

The dot remained red. 

“Carl, it’s a boy! It’s okay, Mongo. I’m sorry I said I’d put you in a 
dress. We’ll get you a nice little bow tie, would you like that?” 

The creature snapped forward and bit Donut directly on the nose. She 
squealed in pain. 

“Bad! Bad Mongo!” 

The baby dinosaur, still in my grip, started screaming back at the cat 
while I tried to keep myself from falling over with laughter. Donut hissed 
and swatted it lightly on the head. The small monster squealed indignantly 
and snapped again at her face. 


I examined the creature’s properties. 

Male Mongoliensis — Level 1 

This is a pet-class mob. 

This pet has not yet bonded with a crawler. 

The stubborn and hot-headed Mongoliensis is not the type of pet to 
ever be “tamed.” The best one can hope for is mutual respect. And even 
then they still might try to eat you if the fancy strikes them. While 
especially powerful, fast, and vicious when they are fully grown at level 
15, getting them to level 15 is about as likely as a cheerleader from West 
Virginia reaching her 18th birthday as a virgin. 

They will immediately attack any mobs they see. They will fight to 
the death. 

Good luck. 

“Goddamnit, Donut,” I said. “I knew we should’ve gone with the grub.” 

“I’m not going to have a disgusting bug thing as a pet, Carl,” Donut 
said. “You can’t even put a bow tie on a grub.” She reached forward and 
patted Mongo on the head. He snapped at her and attached himself to her 
arm. She yowled and shook her arm until he fell off. 

“Well we better figure out how to get this thing to ‘bond’ with you 
before we go to Mordecai’s room, or Mongo here is going to teleport away 
the second we walk in there.” 

“Don’t worry, Carl. Mongo and I are practically best friends already. 
Aren’t we, Mongo?” 

Mongo shrieked at the cat. 


OceanofPDF.com 


[ 47 ] 


Views: 124.8 Trillion 
Followers: 2.1 Trillion 
Favorites: 234 Billion 


THE PROCESS OF GETTING MONGO TO BOND WITH DONUT TOOK THE REST OF 
our time on the second floor. It also, for whatever reason, appeared to be 
endlessly amusing to the general public. The continuing fallout from the 
Maestro sex tape along with Donut getting her nose chomped over and over 
and over by her new “pet” seemed to be a winning combination, in terms of 
views, at least. Even though we faced no more bosses or major battles for 
the remainder of our time on this floor, we were far from idle. Zev was 
beside herself with our numbers, which apparently were exceptionally good 
for the second floor. 

We received daily updates from the PR agent. The pet was playing well. 
Zev implored me to stop training with the slingshot. Nobody liked me using 
the “boring” slingshot, she claimed, not when I could toss a stick of 
dynamite instead. I ignored her advice and continued practicing with it. I 
managed to get the skill up to five. And while the tiny stones did very little 
damage, they had the ability to knock the brindled vespas out of the air. A 
single hit to one of the hornet’s wings caused it to crash to the ground and 
make it unable to spit its acid. A follow-up magic missile from Donut— 
whose skill in the spell had risen to eight—usually killed them off. We 


didn’t need to wander far when we had an almost endless supply of the 
level-eight hornets to hunt. 

The first thing we did after winning Mongo was go talk to Mordecai. 
The creature fit in the gerbil cage. Barely. It wasn’t ideal, and it was cruel to 
keep him in there. But if I carried him in my hands, he spent every free 
moment trying to bite me. If we stuck him in the cage, it allowed us to take 
him into a safe room without having to worry about him teleporting away. 
That is, as long as we kept our fingers away from the bars. 

“Don’t ask me about that thing until you start the bonding process,” 
Mordecai said. “The rules are a little weird about taming dungeon pets.” In 
his cage, Mongo screamed and hissed at the guide. “Once you figure out 
how to remove his automatic hostility, which is the first step, come back, 
and Pll give you more info.” 

“Remove his hostility? Like how I did with the danger dingoes?” I 
asked. 

“That’s right. You can’t bond with a creature when its aggro is activated. 
If you see that dot turn white, come back here, and I can help after that.” 

Donut and I opened up our loot boxes from the boss fight. Donut 
“coincidentally” received a spell book of Heal Critter. I received yet 
another Potion of Determine Value (which had come from a Looter Box, not 
a boss box last time) and 1,000 gold coins. I wondered about that. There 
seemed to be a reason why the system kept giving these things to me. I 
drank it down, and I had a few new sort options for my inventory, including 
a new history tab. I would explore all that later. It still didn’t tell me the 
monetary value of my individual items. 

I also received an achievement for feeding the danger dingoes. 

New achievement! PETA Enthusiast! 

You somehow managed to remove the hostility of an aggravated, 
non-sapient enemy. That enemy then fought against other enemies to 
your benefit. The ghost of Steve Irwin smiles down upon you. 

Reward: I SAID THE GHOST OF STEVE IRWIN SMILES DOWN 
UPON YOU. 

“Okay,” I said. “So, let’s talk about the third floor.” 

“All right, here we go,” Mordecai said. He rubbed his furry hands 
together. “Here’s the deal.” 

He indicated a pair of chairs, asking us to sit. I sat down, placing 
Mongo’s cage on the floor between me and Donut. The guide seemed oddly 


excited about this. I noticed for the first time that he’d cleaned up his 
chambers. His bed was made. The shelves with the picture of his brother 
and the urn with his mother had been straightened and dusted. 

Once we were settled, he continued. “You’re going to go down the 
stairs, and you will immediately find yourselves back in this room. You will 
first choose your race, then your class, and then you will distribute your stat 
points. From there, I will give you information on class guilds, if 
applicable. Not all classes have guilds.” 

“How many choices will there be for race?” I asked. 

“A lot. It is unique every season, and the both of you will have a 
different pool of choices. The class choices will depend on your racial 
choice. You know how in every new Olympics they introduce a few new 
sports, usually ones associated with the host country? That’s how it is with 
classes. The base classes will always be available. Fighter, mage, rogue, 
bard, cleric, etcetera. But there will also be additional, more specialized 
classes available, including new, earth-specific classes.” 

“What does that mean, though? Earth-specific classes?” 

“I don’t know yet. I won’t see the list until you do. But you will have an 
incentive to pick one of these classes. They like it when crawlers pick the 
new classes because it’s good for ratings. The system AI...” He paused, 
making sure I was paying attention. “Again, the system AI and not Borant 
will give you some recommendations based on your preexisting skills. 
These recommendations are generally good. However, these 
recommendations do not take into account how these choices might affect 
your standing socially. Does that make sense?” 

“Yes,” I said. “The AI might say it’ll be best to turn into a rock monster 
paladin, and I’d be a badass, but it might also tank my views.” 

“Exactly. I will also be allowed to offer limited advice. After class 
selection, your stat points will automatically distribute up to the race and 
class minimums, and you will be free to distribute the rest as you please. 
However, you, Donut, can’t distribute stats because of your Enhanced 
Growth buff. You’ll want to find something that comes with a boost to 
constitution if you can. Got it?” 

“Got it,” I said. Donut grunted assent. 

“Wait a second,” I said. “What was your class? I know you chose a 
changeling as your race, but what was your class?” 


“I chose Arcanist, which allowed me to explore several different magic 
schools. Certain classes can further specialize when they hit the sixth floor. 
It was then that I chose the fire path. I was a Changeling Fire Mage 
Arcanist. It worked out well for me. I ended up a few levels behind people 
who went straight to fire magic, but I could still wield other magics without 
a big penalty.” 

“So you didn’t pick one of the special classes for your planet?” 

He frowned slightly. “I almost chose a skyfowl class, something called a 
Storm Commander. But Odette talked me out of it. My brother ended up 
picking it instead, on her recommendation.” 

I paused, my eyes immediately moving to the framed photo on the shelf. 
He’d mentioned his brother a few times, but I hadn’t realized he’d been a 
crawler. I’d assumed he’d been lost during his planet’s initial collapse. 

“Finally, there’s the matter of the third floor itself,’ Mordecai said, 
making it perfectly clear he had no desire to go down that conversational 
path. “I prefer to explain it when you get there because there’s a lot to take 
in. It’s not something you need to worry about just yet. Okay?” 

“Sure,” I said, standing. “Now...” 

Thwum. 

“Mongo!” Donut cried. 

Pd stood too close to the cage, and the monster tried to bite me. He 
teleported away. 

“Whoops,” I said. 

“Carl, you scared him!” 

“I scared him?” I picked up the now-empty cage. “Well, that sucks. I 
guess it wasn’t meant to...” 

Donut bolted out the door, yelling, “Mongo! Mongo!” 

“Goddamnit, Donut!” I cried, running after the cat. “Don’t go out there 
alone!” 

We eventually found the thing huddled in the main hall, crying like a 
baby, squawking at the top of his little chicken lungs. 

“There you are! You’re going to get lost! Don’t wander like that!” 
Donut cried, out of breath. 

The dinosaur looked up. The little shit looked like he’d been crying. His 
beady, reptilian eyes grew giant when he saw us. He ran right to Donut, 
little arms out, like a long-lost puppy reuniting with his owner. 

“It’s okay, I’m here. Mommy is here,” Donut said. 


He rushed up and chomped her directly on the nose. 


The next day consisted of grinding, killing brindled vespas, and wrangling 
Mongo. 

We quickly learned that only one thing stopped the thing from trying to 
murder me and Donut: seeing another mob. 

If any sort of enemy came anywhere near us, the crazy chicken went 
absolutely apeshit. He screamed and snapped and tried to kill himself in an 
attempt to get to the creature. He was like a goddamned psychotic 
wolverine hopped up on bath salts. 

Other than his ability to inflict punishing nose chomps, the dinosaur 
chicken remained mostly harmless. I was afraid to let him near any mobs, 
even simple brindle grubs in fear he’d get himself stomped. 

But in the end, that’s exactly what we needed to do. It was the recap 
episode that gave me the clue. We were only on the program for a few short 
moments, but I learned something important. The four-eyed, orange-hued 
host of the show mentioned that Mongo was a pack hunter. That gave me an 
idea. After the episode, we went out and found a lone brindle grub 
struggling its way down a hall. 

“You need to show him how to kill it,” I said. “I’m going to let him free, 
and you two kill it together.” 

“You mean I gotta use my claws?” Donut asked. 

“Yep,” I said. 

She sighed. “All right. Who knew being a mother would be this 
difficult?” 

I opened the cage, and Mongo shot out like a bullet toward the level- 
two brindle grub, who squeaked and tried to crawl away. The little dinosaur 
leaped in the air, slashing with his clawed feet and chomping down on the 
bug. The health bar on the grub appeared, but it barely went down. 

“Look, these guys are juicy on the inside,” Donut said, coming up 
behind the two combatants. “If you cut here, all the stuff falls out and 
they’re dead.” She rolled the grub over and cut with her claw along the 
bug’s stomach, like she was unzipping it. The grub shuddered and died, 
spilling white goo everywhere. Mongo shrieked with joy and began to 


vigorously devour the remains, filling himself up so much his stomach 
bulged afterward. The little dinosaur puked on the floor and then ate that, 
too. 

“Christ, that’s disgusting,” I said. 

“Good boy. Good Mongo!” Donut cried. 

Mongo stood on top of the grub’s remains and peed. Luckily the ban 
only applied to humans otherwise we’d have summoned about 100 
elementals that first day. 

“Come on, let’s keep killing,” Donut said. The next hall down held three 
grubs. I followed at a distance while they rushed over and tried it again. 

Mongo seemed to have been paying attention. He managed to kill the 
second grub by himself, slicing open its belly with the hooked claw on his 
foot. He bounced up and down with excitement after he did it. 

By the time he’d finished off all three grubs, Mongo’s dot turned from 
red to white. He still wasn’t “bonded” to Donut, but he no longer attacked 
us. Actually, that wasn’t true. He still attacked, but not as much. We didn’t 
need the cage anymore. He followed us on foot, sometimes running ahead, 
sometimes hopping sideways and lagging behind. If we approached an 
unknown mob, I had to stick him back in the cage, however. He did not like 
that one bit. 

Despite killing a dozen grubs, he remained at level one. We decided it 
was time to go back to Mordecai. 

“So, pets,” Mordecai said after we returned to the guild. “I’m limited in 
what I can tell you at this point, but I can now reveal you’re on the right 
track. Keep doing what you’re doing. That’s the good news. The bad news 
is you need to hurry. If he’s not bonded by the time the floor collapses, you 
won’t be able to bring him with you.” 

We had barely forty hours left. 

“Oh no,” Donut cried. “Carl, we need to get back out there!” 

“Just a minute,” I said. “I have a couple pet questions. Can we have 
more than one?” 

“Tt depends,” he said. “There are multiple types of pets. The quick 
answer is no, you generally can’t have more than one. But there are lots of 
exceptions. Some classes and some races allow for crawlers to have 
multiple pets. Also, if you have an especially high charisma, like Donut, 
you can also have multiples of certain types of pets. Also, pets with crawler 
IDs don’t count toward that number. So if Donut had still been classified as 


a pet, you’d have been able to bond with another. Crawler pets and dungeon 
familiars are actually a different sort of thing. That’s why that Lucia Mar 
kid can have those two dogs without any issues. There’s also this one lady 
who brought like 15 goats in with her. She’s still alive, and so are the goats. 
It’s bizarre. There’s this one show that is obsessed with her.” 

“Why isn’t he leveling up?” I asked. “It’s like he’s not getting any 
experience at all.” 

Mordecai nodded. “Pet-class mobs are a little different. You got him 
from a treasure room, but it’s the same as if you’d purchased him from a 
shop. Mobs that start out as a pet class will always be level one regardless 
of what they usually are when you find them in the dungeon. And they’ ll 
stay level one until they’re bonded. Only then will they start to level. Once 
they do start gaining experience, though, they will grow rapidly. He’ll get 
physically more mature each level up.” 

“The description says he’s fully grown at level 15. Is that as high as he 
can get?” I asked. 

“Oh no,” Mordecai said. “Not even close. He just won’t get physically 
bigger after that.” 

“How big will he get?” Donut asked, looking down at the chicken who 
was running in circles around Mordecai’s room, shrieking. 

“I can’t tell you,” he said. “But that little cage you’ve been using isn’t 
going to work for much longer. You need to do more than just bond with 
him. You need to teach him restraint, or he is going to die, and he might just 
take you down with him if he aggravates the wrong mob. Any attempt at 
stealth is out the window until he learns to behave himself.” Mongo 
responded by running up to Mordecai and leap-attacking his leg. 

It took us a good bit to find where he’d teleported to. He’d entered the 
hallway across from our current quadrant and was in the process of 
wrangling with one of those level-three cow-tailed brindle grubs. He didn’t 
quite yet have the chops to take one of those things out on his own, but the 
ferocious little dino was doing an admirable job of dodging the grub’s tail 
Swipes. 

We spent the next several hours trying to train him with dog commands. 
“Attack” and “come” and even “lie down” worked really well. “Stay,” was 
another story. 

Donut was surprisingly patient during this time. It turned out Mongo 
was very food motivated, and he loved pet biscuits, which made him easier 


to train. After a full day, we managed to keep him from just outright 
charging every time he saw something. He’d snarl and squawk and hop up 
and down, but he wouldn’t plunge headfirst into battle until Donut said the 
command, which had somehow evolved from “attack” to “sic ‘em.” 

When the timer was down to ten hours, we had to start carving our way 
toward the stairwell. We didn’t have a choice. Mongo still hadn’t officially 
bonded with Donut, and I was getting pretty worried it wasn’t going to 
happen. 

We were now exclusively fighting the brindled vespas. Despite the 
dungeon halving the number of hornets in the dungeon, they were still 
everywhere. The mobs gave a decent amount of experience, and we both hit 
level 13. 

Out of desperation, we finally allowed Mongo to participate in the 
fights. 

If there were more than a couple hornets in a hallway, we didn’t fuck 
around. I tossed in an explosive. But if there was only one or two, I 
grounded them with my slingshot, and Donut hit them with magic missiles. 
Sometimes a single missile wasn’t enough to kill them. That’s when we’d 
send Mongo in to enthusiastically finish them off. The little beast was 
getting good at using his claw to rip open the thorax of the downed bugs. 

In the hallway just outside the stair chamber, the same hallway we’d run 
through a few days earlier during our fight with the rage elemental, Mongo 
rushed in to finish off a hornet monster. The vespa grabbed at Mongo with 
his human-like hand, capturing the small creature. The mob had been 
mostly dead, but apparently not dead enough. It lifted the screaming and 
struggling chicken into the air and moved to toss him into its enormous, 
toothed mouth. 

“Put Mongo down!” Donut screamed, flying across the hallway and 
slashing at the bug. I’d never seen her move that fast. She decapitated the 
monster with a quick slash, and all three of them fell into a heap on the 
ground. 

“Carl, Carl, something happened,” Donut said a minute later. 

“T see that,” I said, walking up. I felt an odd combination of relief and 
dread. “It finally worked. Congratulations.” 

On the minimap, Mongo’s dot had turned from white to orange. 

“Wait, I can officially name him now,” she said. “I have a new menu 
and everything!” 


Mongo the Mongoliensis Level One (Pet of Grand Champion Best 
in Dungeon Princess Donut) has joined the party. 

Mongo’s title has been changed to Royal Steed. 

“We did it,” Donut cried, hopping up and down. “We tamed Mongo!” 

Mongo also jumped up and down next to the cat. He squawked with 
delight, waving his little arms. 

And then he bit Donut right on the nose. 


So, with seven hours left—one before the recommended time to descend— 
we camped out in the room with the stairs. 

I sat on the ground playing with my menus while Donut and Mongo ran 
in circles around the large chamber, playing energetically. Donut was 
instructing Mongo on the art of pouncing. I watched, smiling. My heart felt 
heavy as I watched them. What would the next floor hold? How much 
longer could we survive? 

I thought of Mordecai and his brother, of that time we’d caught 
Mordecai unaware. He’d been drunk, holding onto that framed picture. This 
game, this terrible, cruel game left scars that spanned centuries. I thought of 
the cheering crowds, watching this all from the safety of their homes. 

You will not break me. Fuck you all. You will not break me. 

As we waited for the timer to hit six hours, I thought back to that odd 
boss prize I received after killing the gerbil. I would’ve thought that 
defeating the boss in such a manner would’ve garnered me a better prize. 
The dungeon AI wasn’t my friend. It wasn’t on my side. I knew that. But 
surely I should’ve gained something good. 

I pulled up my inventory menu. I now had a new tab labeled History. I 
clicked on it, and it was filled with pretty much the same junk I had now, 
but with the chopper and a few extra potions and scrolls and bits of things 
Pd used to build other items. Curious, I clicked to sort it by value. 

I practically choked. Listed at the very top of my menu were three items 
I’d never seen before. I clicked over to make sure I didn’t have them now. I 
didn’t. 

What the actual hell? 


I looked about, afraid to say anything out loud. Was this some sort of 
bug? I went back to the menu and examined the three items. The tooltips 
didn’t go into the same detail they would if I still had the items on me, 
though I could see their names and what category my inventory had placed 
them in. 

Trans Tunnel 7C Orator Relay by Valtay Corp. — Inter-Tunnel 
Communications Device. 

Valtay Perso-Shield Platinum Edition. — Tech-based Personal 
Shield. 

Mag 3040 Valtay Corp Pulse Pistol. —'Tech-based Weapon. 

The first item had a red exclamation point next to it. I hovered over the 
red mark, and a warning popped up. 

Warning: The System AI governing this program has deemed all 
non-sanctioned and monitored communication devices illegal, and they 
will not work within the dungeon. You may own and sell illegal devices, 
but any attempt to use or circumvent dungeon rules will result in 
immediate disqualification. 

I was completely at a loss. 

“Somebody’s coming,” Donut said. “There’s a blue dot moving toward 
us.” 

My first thought was Frank and Maggie. I jumped to my feet and pulled 
up the map. It wasn’t them. The moment I saw who it was, though, I 
realized I knew exactly where those items in my inventory had come from. 
The realization hit me like a brick. Well, that’s a weird coincidence. 

“Agatha,” I said. “Holy shit, she’s still alive.” 

I had taken her entire shopping cart into my inventory during that boss 
battle with the Ball of Swine. So much had happened so quickly during that 
battle, Pd never actually examined the individual items of her cart. Pd 
never even thought to do it. I looked now, and sure enough all of it was 
there. The shopping cart. An inordinate amount of IKEA bags and cans of 
spray paint. Blankets. Clothes. And a goddamned “Pulse pistol.” All three 
of the items appeared to be manufactured by the same company. The Valtay 
Corporation. 

My mind raced. I thought of what Brandon had said. Agatha had been 
the one to set their old folk’s home on fire, bringing everyone outside. The 
act had, temporarily, saved the lives of hundreds of people. But did she 
work for Borant? Had someone just given her that stuff, and she didn’t 


know what it was? And why the hell hadn’t she shown up on the recap 
episode? Should I say something? 

“You ain’t dead,” Agatha said a few minutes later as she wheeled the 
squeaking shopping cart into the room. The woman was still level four, the 
same she’d been since the boss battle with the tusklings. 

“Where have you been?” I asked, moving toward her. 

“Don’t touch me!” she cried, shuffling faster toward the stairs. “You’re 
a cart thief. I don’t trust cart thieves.” 

“Hey, I gave it back,” I said. 

She didn’t answer. She just pushed her cart toward the stairs. 

I was tempted to grab her cart again, but only for a second. Whatever 
this was, it was something well beyond my current ability to understand or 
process. And getting involved with it probably wasn’t good for my health, 
especially when I didn’t know what the hell was going on. Never trust 
someone if their motivations aren't clear. Odette had said that to me. Still, I 
was overwhelmed with curiosity. 

I thought of that saying. Curiosity killed the cat. 

Mongo screamed at Agatha, but Donut whispered a quiet command and 
the little monster held back. Agatha gave the dinosaur no heed. The stairs 
had already turned into a ramp thanks to the earlier descent by Brandon and 
crew. 

“I see the others made it down,” Agatha muttered as she pushed the cart 
forward. 

“You should wait ten minutes,” I called. “If you go down now, you’|l 
lose six hours. Plus I need to talk to you... About your shopping cart.” I 
added that last part without thinking, and I immediately regretted it. Don’t 
get involved, you idiot! 

Agatha paused. She gave me a sharp look. Through her rheumy eyes, I 
saw a warning there. No, those eyes said, stop now. 

“T can fix the wheel,” I quickly added. “It’s squeaking. They can hear 
you coming.” 

She blinked, and the look went away so quickly I wondered if I had 
imagined it. 

“No need to fix m’squeak, boy. Them critters already know I’m here. 
They just don’t know what to do about it. You worry about you, and I worry 
about me.” 

She continued down the stairs, quickly disappearing from view. 


Zev: Are you guys okay? 

DONUT: WE ARE FINE ARE YOU OKAY? 

Zev: Okay, false alarm. I see you now. There was a brief outage 
there in the feed. It happens sometimes. Odette says she’s ready 
whenever you are, so feel free to go down starting in seven minutes. I 
won’t be able to talk to you until after you’re done with the race and 
class selection. I guess I’ll see you guys on the other side. Good luck. 

Carl: How long was the feed out? 

Zev: Just a couple minutes. It’s been acting funky all day. Don’t 
worry, it’s nothing unusual. People are always complaining about it. 
I’m on planet, and I still have feed issues. 

Them critters already know I’m here. They just don’t know what to do 
about it. 

Christ, I thought. What sort of bullshit was this? I thought back to the 
inventory potion. The moment I’d discovered the items, Agatha had 
appeared. Was that a coincidence? Was she working with the system AI? I 
shook my head. 

A week and a half ago, I’d been planning on kidnapping a prize-winning 
cat and then selling everything I owned in order to bribe my ex-girlfriend to 
keep her from suing me. And even that was more drama than I’d ever 
wanted to deal with. All of this... with the Skull Empire and everything 
else, it was just too much, too fast. How could we focus on surviving when 
we had all this other stuff to deal with? 

I sighed. I watched the timer finally run down to six hours. 

“Come on, Donut,” I said. “Let’s see what this third floor is all about.” 

“Do you think it’ll be as exciting as the second floor?” she asked. 

“God, I hope not,” I said. 

Mongo screeched. 


OceanofPDF.com 


OceanofPDE.com 


EPILOGUE 


“YOU DO REALIZE THAT THING IS GOING TO GET YOU KILLED, RIGHT?” 
Odette asked after the conclusion of her show. Donut was currently chasing 
Mongo around the studio. The little dinosaur kept running head-first into 
the invisible wall and screaming. Lexis, Odette’s production assistant, had 
given the small monster a bow tie to wear on the show, and he’d practically 
bitten off her finger. The tie had lasted about three seconds before he’d 
ripped it off. 

The taping had gone well. We’d started off by discussing the whole 
thing with the rage elemental. Then we talked about Mongo. Donut had 
trained him to perch quietly on her back, clinging onto her fur. He’d 
behaved himself. Mostly. Odette had mentioned something about a magical 
pet carrier, which apparently was the dungeon’s equivalent of a pokeball. 
They were supposedly expensive, but it would allow us to put bonded pets 
into inventory without harming them. I didn’t care how much they cost. If 
we could afford it, it was going to be one of our first purchases. No more 
shoving Mongo into the gerbil cage and then sticking him in the bathroom 
so we couldn’t hear his shrieks while we slept. 

Pd known what was coming next. 

After the segment on Mongo, I’d finally gotten to see a shortened 
version of the infamous Pork Boy Snick. Donut had found it hilarious. The 
mysterious creator of the video had been very... generous... with my 
proportions. Pd been half-expecting the video to feature my feet 
prominently. I didn’t dare say it out loud, but I had this strange notion that 
the system AI might’ve had something to do with the video. But if it did, 
the video showed nothing to indicate it. In fact, it had clearly been produced 


by someone more interested in the Maestro than me, as he was the obvious 
subject of the video. 

“So,” Odette had said after we watched the scene and the audience’s 
uproarious laughter eased. “You are likely unaware of this, but Death Watch 
Extreme Dungeon Mayhem announced earlier that it was going into hiatus 
while the show restructured.” 

“T’m shocked,” Donut said. “Quite shocked.” 

The audience laughed. 

“King Rust of the Skull Empire, who recently arrived in earth orbit, has 
been oddly quiet about the controversy. A spokesperson for the royal family 
has requested people stop referring to the prince as ‘Carl’s Naughty Little 
Piggie,’” The audience roared, “But so far, nobody seems to be complying.” 
Odette turned to her audience. With her bug helmet, her face was 
expressionless, but I could hear the grin in her voice. “I would personally 
like to assure King Rust that I would never call Prince Maestro ‘Carl’s 
Naughty Little Piggie’ or ‘Pork Boy.’ And I would like to encourage my 
audience to never sink to that level. Again, it’s ‘Prince Maestro’ and not,” 
she held her hands out. 

“Carl’s Naughty Little Piggie!” the audience shouted, followed by peals 
of laughter. 

“Anyway,” Odette said. “What do you think about this, Carl?” 

“Look,” I said. “I don’t know anything about the Skull Clan or Empire 
or whatever, or this king guy. I’m sure he has a perfectly nice family and 
kingdom.” The audience laughed. “I don’t want any trouble with him and 
his people. But his son is a dick, and I called him out on it. Nothing more, 
and nothing less. I didn’t mean to cause an intergalactic incident. I know 
nothing about the video.” 

“So, to be clear, it is a snick,” Odette asked. “A lot of people seem to 
believe it’s real.” 

“Tf I was going to turn gay, it wouldn’t be with that guy.” 

The audience screamed. Odette nodded. “But you did challenge him to 
single combat.” 

“Yes, I did. And that offer still stands,” I said. “I still don’t know how 
any of this stuff works because you guys won’t tell me anything.” More 
laughter. “But I hope for the chance to face him one on one.” 

“We do too, don’t we?” Odette said. 


1? 


The audience cheered. Someone shouted, “Glurp, glurp!” A minute later 
the whole audience was glurping. 

Odette shook her head in mock disgust. 

The show soon ended after that. Like last time, Odette ushered Lexis 
out of the room so we could talk for a few minutes. 

“Ts it worth it,” I asked, indicating the pet. “If he lives, I mean.” 

“You should’ve picked the Tummy Acher,” Odette said. “The little 
round guy with the mohawk. They’re very friendly and easy to work with. 
Plus they’re rare, and people love them. Once they’re full grown, they are 
one of the best melee tanks in the game. But your Mongo is a solid choice. 
If you can keep him alive, he will be a vicious fighter.” 

“So,” I said. “I gave your message to Mordecai. He wasn’t too pleased 
with the idea of working for you.” 

She nodded sadly. “I saw. I watched you tell him. He had a few 
additional choice words for me after you left. He’ll come around. Tell him I 
understand his feelings on the matter, and I would love for the opportunity 
to explain myself.” 

“What happened between you two?” I asked. 

“We don’t have time to go into it,” Odette said. “But the short answer is 
I pushed him too hard, and he paid dearly for it. Anyway, you’re about to 
hit the all-important third floor.” She’d asked me on air if I knew what I 
was going to do, and I’d answered truthfully. I had no idea what was going 
to happen. Donut had lied and said she had it all planned out. “Do you 
really not know what you’re going to do?” 

“I don’t even know what my choices are going to be,” I said. “How can 
I decide?” 

She nodded. “When I decided to stay human, it lost me several viewers, 
but not too many. You’re in a tough position. Whatever you choose, make 
sure it has either a pathfinder skill or some sort of advanced mapping 
ability. Finding stairwells as quickly as possible will be crucial on further 
floors. It’s not going to be a problem on this third floor. Also,” she added. 
“Make sure Donut goes first. That way you can tailor your class selection 
on hers. I would ignore the AI’s advice for your race, but I’d take a careful 
look at whatever it suggests for your class.” 

“Hey,” I said. “Do you know anything about the Valtay Corporation?” 

She paused, cocking her head to the side. “Where did you hear about 
them?” 


I shrugged. “Just curious. I heard it somewhere.” 

She smiled, but without humor. “Be careful. If they are somehow 
contacting you or trying to get to you, be very cautious. They’re a corporate 
system government, and they’re the ones who currently have an entire fleet 
parked outside of the Borant system, ready to collect on the debt. They were 
hours away from initiating a full-scale collection action when the kua-tin 
stopped them in their tracks by starting the season early. They’re one of the 
most powerful entities in the universe. The next season is going to be run by 
them.” 

“Are they human?” I asked. I thought of Agatha. Was she one of these 
aliens? The idea seemed absurd. 

“No,” she said. “Not usually. They’re a parasitic lifeform. They do 
utilize human bodies, but their home world is aquatic, and they much prefer 
water-based hosts, such as the kua-tin or the gleeners. They’re known for 
their technological advancements. Their version of Dungeon Crawler World 
is less goblins and trolls and more android death machines and pulse rifles. 

I contemplated telling her about Agatha, but I decided against it. I 
decided it would be best to just stay away from the woman the best I could. 

Mongo pounced and chomped directly onto Donut’s tail. She howled 
and started running in circles with Mongo still attached. 

Odette shook her head. “You’re gonna want to level that thing up as 
soon as you can. But make sure Donut has proper control over him first. 
Those little nibbles and nose chomps are cute now. They won’t be so 
adorable when he’s full-grown.” 

“Do you know how big he gets?” 

“You honestly don’t know what he is?” Odette asked. “He’s a pretty 
common creature across the universe. They always seed the human worlds 
with those guys and the others before the humans develop. Most human 
kids love these things.” 

“He’s a dinosaur of some sort. I know that much.” 

“He’s a dinosaur all right. Mongoliensis.” Her eyes flashed, in a similar 
way that Mordecai’s did when he was searching through his menus. “Ahh, I 
see,” she said after a moment. “The issue is the translation. ‘Mongoliensis’ 
is based off the scientific name. Your language had a more common name 
for those things.” 

The little chicken jumped up on Donut’s back and squawked. 

“You called them velociraptors.” 


I returned my gaze to the little monster. I’d been thrown off by the pink 
feathers and the beak. But now that she said it, I could see the monstrosity 
Mongo would soon become. 

“T mean, it’s obvious, isn’t it?” 

“Oh hell,” I finally said. 

She laughed. 

Donut came up to us, breathless. “Carl, is it time to go yet?” 

“There’s one last piece of advice I’d like to give,” Odette said, looking 
at the both of us. She paused, as if uncertain about what she was about to 
say. She’d changed on a dime, suddenly looking different, almost sad. “It’s 
just a suggestion. I don’t know if, morally, this is a good idea or not, but this 
will greatly increase your chances of survival. It’s something to look for 
during class selection. It’s generally only offered to crawlers with a high 
charisma, so if it’s available, it’ll be hidden somewhere amongst Donut’s 
choices. The problem is, if you pick it, it’s going to make someone very 
angry.” 


OceanofPDE:com 


IT’S OVER, YO 


New Achievement! You read a book! 

You managed to make it all the way through the first Dungeon 
Crawler Carl book without throwing it against the wall! 

Reward: You get to wait until January of 2021 before you can read 
the next one. 

The good news is the next book has clowns and dead hookers in it. 


Carl’s Doomsday Scenario will be available in January of 2021. Don’t 
worry. It’s already written and ready to go. Cheryl is editing it right now. 
Thank you for reading. Seriously. Please, please leave a review. We live and 
die by our reviews, and it’s super important. So if you read this and enjoyed 
it, please review it. It’s against Amazon’s rules to offer a prize to those who 
review books, but I will risk Amazon’s wrath and offer my services to be 
the father of your babies if you post a review. See you in ’21. 


OceanofPDF.com 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


(This is where we switch to third person and pretend like Matt isn’t writing this himself.) 

Matt Dinniman is a writer and artist from Gig Harbor, WA. When he isn’t attending cat shows, 
wrangling dogs, feeding turtles, playing bass in a punk/metal band, or writing books that make guys 
named Kyle threaten to kill his family because he called a goblin an incel, he designs cat-themed 
greeting cards and decorations. If you’ve ever walked into a Target or an IKEA or a Home Goods, 
looked at the weird wall art they have for sale there, and thought to yourself, who buys this crap? The 
answer is, “Not nearly as many people as Matt would like.” So please buy all his books. (Or his art!) 


fe AG) 


OceanofPDF.com 


MAILING LIST! PATREON! 


Join the Matt Dinniman mailing list and get the dope on new releases and 
more! Join up here! 


If you’re feeling especially saucy, you can join the Matt Dinniman Patreon 
and read advance chapters and whole books before they come out on 
Amazon. 


www.patreon.com/dinniman 


OceanofPDE:.com 


ALSO BY MATT DINNIMAN 


Kaiju: Battlefield Surgeon (Horror LitRPG!) 
Dominion of Blades Series (LitRPG!) 
The Shivered Sky Series (Angels vs demons!) 


The Grinding (A horror novel!) 


Trailer Park Fairy Tales (Short stories! One of them even won a fancy award!) 


OceanofPDF:com 


THE PAGE WHERE WE TOUT FACEBOOK GROUPS SO THEY LET US 
SPAM THEM ABOUT THIS BOOK 


Over on Facebook, if you want to talk about Gamelit. I mean if you really 
want to talk about Gamelit, check out the Gamelit Society! 


Wait, there’s more! There’s the super-awesome extreme LitRPG Books 
Group! 


OceanofPDE:.com 


ONE MORE! 


Check out one of the OG LitRPG forums over on Facebook. It’s https:// 
www.facebook.com/groups/LitRPGGroup 


OceanofPDE.com 


